THE OF THE FEBRUARY 22ND TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR REGULAR MEETING
OF THE URBAN PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED WE'RE GOING TO GIVE A
QUICK SECOND FOR STAFF TO CALL
THE ROLL PROFESSIONALLY.
YEAH, I'M HERE.
DO YOU WANT ME TO JUST CALL
ROLL CALL ROLL UP YOUR APRONS
HERE.
COMMISSIONER WHITE'S HERE.
COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
COMMISSIONER COUNSEL.
NO DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YEAH.
THE COMMISSIONER WHETHER BE
HERE AND WELCOMING COMMISSIONER
ADAMS HERE.
GREAT WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF SARA WE ARE ALL HERE.
WE HAVE QUORUM.
DO I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA?
COMMISSIONER WHITE AND
COMMISSIONER BE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION POLICE GUY
AND HE OPPOSED SEEING NONE THE
MOTION CARRIES THEY HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
OF THE FEBRUARY SIX TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR COMMISSIONER EVANS
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLS ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES AND HE OPPOSED MOTION
OF ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I OK MOTION
CARRIES.
WELCOME COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO SECTION
FIVE.
NEXT UP OUR REPORT TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION WILL START WITH
THE COUNCIL DISH.
I CAN GO TO STAFF IF YOU'D LIKE
.
OK, LET'S START WITH STAFF
SKIMPILY LIKE FOR THE MANAGER
REPORT I AM HAPPY TO SHARE SOME
SAVE THE DATE.
THERE WILL BE THREE DAYS MARCH
12TH TO 14TH AT THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY THREE DAYS OF OPEN
HOUSES ACTIVITIES AND JOINT
PUBLIC WORKSHOPS THAT WILL
BRING TOGETHER THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND DOWNTOWN
CIRCULATION'S THERE WILL BE
FURTHER ANNOUNCEMENTS AND
DETAILS TO THE SPECIFIC
SPECIFICS OF THAT EXACTLY WHAT
ACTIVITIES TO EXPECT, WHAT
TIMES BUT FOR NOW IF YOU YOU
CAN SIGN UP FOR UPDATES THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BY GOING TO
A TO GOVERN AGAIN PLAN AND
PLEASE SAVE THOSE DATES AGAIN
THAT'S MARCH 12TH THROUGH
FOURTEENTH IT WILL BE AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY AND I AM HAPPY
TO SHARE SOME PROGRESS ON
FILLING OUR PLANNER POSITIONS.
OUR ASSOCIATE PLANNER POSTING
IS NOW CLOSED.
THE REVIEW PANEL HAS SELECTED
FINALISTS AND WE HOPE TO HAVE
NEW STAFF TO INTRODUCE TO YOU
AS SOON AS NEXT MONTH.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
GLAD TO HEAR IT.
COUNCIL MEMBER ISH I AM VERY
HAPPY TO REPORT THAT THE
MODIFICATIONS TO THE
CONFLICTING USE BARRIER OR CLUB
ORDINANCE HAVE PASSED AND THAT
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR
333 E WILLIAM WENT THROUGH ON
THE CONSENT AGENDA LAST TUESDAY
NIGHT.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU TO OTHER
COMMISSIONERS, OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISON HAVE ANYTHING
TO REPORT SEEING NONE
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED.
OH I COULD JUST SHARE THAT WE
MOVE TO A BI MONTHLY SCHEDULE
LAST YEAR WHEN APPROVING THE
AGENDA FOR THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE AND NEXT
TUESDAY EVENING VIRTUALLY
STARTING AT 7:00 P.M. THERE
WILL BE A CONTINUED DISCUSSION
OF ZONING SIMPLIFICATION AT THE
ORDINANCE REVISIONS COMMITTEE.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SIX PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS I KNOW WILL FIRST CALL
ON INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE PRESENT
TO ADDRESS THE MISSION, THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE A
RAISE HAND FEATURE VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK AND FOR
PHONE ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO RAISE THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE MINUTES OF THE PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISES
SO WE CAN HEAR IT CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
MR. GARBER?
THANK YOU, CHARLIE.
CAN
OVER TWENTY EIGHT HAVE A
HOME COURT ON BEHALF OF THE
PUBLIC?
I'D LIKE TO WELCOME MR. ADAMS
TO THE COMMISSION.
THANK YOU IN ADVANCE FOR YOUR
VOLUNTEER PUBLIC SERVICE.
REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS TIME SEEING NO ONE?
IS THERE ANYONE REMOTELY THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
MISKELLY GIVE IT ANOTHER TWO
SECONDS?
NO.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE'RE GOING TO GO TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR THE NEXT
BUSINESS MEETING MAX KELLY,
WOULD YOU LIKE TO TALK ABOUT
THE SEVEN THREE TWO PACKER?
THERE'S THREE PUBLIC HEARINGS
FOR THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING ON MARCH 5TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR THE FIRST IS
SEVEN THIRTY TWO PACKARD STREET
PD ZONING DISTRICT AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND
SITE PLAN.
THIS IS A REQUEST TO REZONE A
ONE POINT TWO SEVEN ACRE SITE
FROM SEA WHEN OUR CAMPUS
BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL TO PAD
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT ENDED
UP SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS TO
ALLOW DEVELOPMENT UP TO FOUR
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET AND FOURTEEN
STORIES AND A SITE PLAN TO
CONSTRUCT A FOURTEEN STORY
APARTMENT BUILDING WITH
OPTIONAL GROUND FLOOR
COMMERCIAL PROPOSED BENEFICIAL
EFFECTS.
THE PUDI DISTRICT INCLUDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BY PAYMENT
IN LIEU ENHANCE SUSTAINABILITY
AND OPEN SPACE AS PROPOSED.
THE BUILDING HAS THREE AND
EIGHTY SEVEN APARTMENTS,
SEVENTY EIGHT VEHICLE PARKING
SPACES, THREE HUNDRED AND FORTY
ONE BICYCLE PARKING SPACES AND
INCLUDES STREETSCAPE
IMPROVEMENTS.
THE SITE INCLUDES TWELVE
PARCELS.
THE NEXT PUBLIC HEARING IS FIVE
OH THREE MILLER AVENUE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED REQUEST FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
APPLE PLAY SCHOOLS PROPOSES TO
LOCATE A CHILD CARE CENTER IN
THE ARCHWAY TO FAMILIES ZONING
DISTRICT.
THE CENTER WOULD BE LIMITED TO
FORTY SEVEN CHILDREN AND
FIFTEEN STAFF.
THE EXISTING STRUCTURE IS TO BE
RENOVATED.
NO NEW DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED
.
THE LAST PUBLIC HEARING NOTICES
FOR 416 LONG SHORE DRIVE SITE
PLAN FOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL A PROPOSAL
TO CONSTRUCT A NEW FOUR STOREY
FIFTEEN UNIT CONDOMINIUM
BUILDING ON A ONE POINT SIX SIX
ACRE PARCEL ZONED OFFICE NEXT
TO AN EXISTING OFFICE BUILDING.
YOU'LL NOTE THAT YOUR NEXT ITEM
WAS WITHDRAWN BY THE PETITIONER
.
THANK YOU.
SO WE WILL BE SKIPPING OVER
SECTION EIGHT A WHICH IS
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WITH
RESPECT TO THIRTY FIVE TWENTY
GREEN CORP THAT MOVES US ON TO
SECTION NINE A REGULAR BUSINESS
THIS IS THE THIRTY THREE EIGHTY
NIXON ROAD REZONING AND SITE
PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
OUR CREEK FACED.
I WILL INTRODUCE A PETITION
THIS IS THE REZONING AND SITE
PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL
A PROPOSAL TO REZONE THE
PROPERTY FROM R FOR A TO R FOR
D ON THE CONDITION THAT THE
PROPERTY AND THE BUILDING THE
BUILDING HEIGHT IS 75 FEET AND
TO BUILD ONE HUNDRED THIRTY ONE
HOUSING UNITS IN ONE NINETY
NINE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
EIGHTY FIVE SQUARE FOOT
BUILDING ON THE SITE OF THE OWL
CREEK PHASE ONE CURRENT ZONING
DESIGNATION IS R FOR A
MULTIFAMILY.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL.
WITH THAT WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
MR. MARK, GOOD EVENING.
WE'RE HERE THIS EVENING WITH
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE CIVIL
ENGINEERING DISCIPLINES.
THE OWNER AND ALSO OUR
SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT
SHOULD WE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE PROJECT IN THOSE
AREAS LET'S SAY CONTROL OR
THAT?
OK, SO HERE'S AN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE PROJECT SOUTH OF N14 ON
THAT YOU SAID OF HICKSON ROAD
YOU CAN SEE THE EXISTING
ROOFTOPS OF THE THREE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AS WELL
AS THE CLUBHOUSE AND VARIOUS
SUPPORT GARAGE BUILDINGS.
THIS IS THE ORIGINAL APPROVED
PLAN FOR THE DEVELOPMENT WHICH
HAD A DIFFERENT NAME GOING
THROUGH THE ORIGINAL APPROVAL.
BUT IT WAS APPROVED INITIALLY
FOR FOUR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
AS A CONSEQUENCE OF SOME
DONATIONS OF LAND TO THE CITY
PARKS.
THAT FOURTH BUILDING WOULD HAVE
PUT THE PROJECT OVER ITS
ALLOWABLE DENSITY.
SO WE'RE HERE TODAY WITH A
PROPOSAL THAT WOULD ALLOW US TO
BUILD THAT FOURTH BUILDING AND
HELP ADDRESS THE HOUSING
SHORTAGE IN THE CITY.
THE NEW PROPOSAL WOULD REQUIRE
US TO GO TO A HIGHER
CLASSIFICATION OF MULTIFAMILY
SO THAT WE COULD ADD THESE
UNITS.
YOU MAY HAVE NOTICED FROM THE
AERIAL PHOTO THAT THE PARKING
ASSOCIATED WITH THAT BUILDING
PAD WAS BUILT BECAUSE OF THE
OLD PARKING REGULATIONS AND HOW
MUCH PARKING WE HAD TO PROVIDE
BUT IS NEVER USED I MEAN SELDOM
USED ONE OR TWO CARS THERE AT
THE MOST IF SOMEONE USING THE
DOG PARK BUT WE ALREADY HAVE
PARKING BUILT TO SUPPORT THE
BUILDING.
WE PROPOSED A BILL WHICH IS
REALLY UNUSUAL SITUATION WE'RE
KIND OF GRATEFUL FOR AND
THERE'S YOU CAN SEE A LITTLE
BIT OF THE LOGO OF ONE OF THE
PARKING AREAS THAT DESCENDS
TOWARDS THE THE POND THERE.
WE'VE ACTUALLY PROPOSED TO
BUILD THE BUILDING OUT OVER
THAT IN VARIOUS AREAS
OF TAPPING EXISTING IMPERVIOUS
AREA WITH NEW BUILDING.
SO WE'RE MINIMIZING THE AMOUNT
OF IMPERVIOUS AREA THAT WE'RE
ADDING TO THE PROJECT.
THIS IS ANOTHER SITE LAYOUT
WHERE YOU CAN SEE THAT AREA
THAT WE'RE GOING TO BUILD OVER
THAT LOT OF PARKING ANOTHER
VERSION OF THE SITE PLAN
SHOWING SOME OF THE INTERNAL
LAYOUTS OF BUILDING THE UNITS
WILL FRONT BOTH NORTH AND SOUTH
SIDES OF THE BUILDING.
I'LL BE MULTIPLE UNIT
CONFIGURATIONS KIND
OF MIMICKING THE TYPES OF UNITS
THAT ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
EXISTING PROJECT.
IT'S THERE FROM STUDIOS TO ONE
BEDROOMS OR TWO BEDROOMS AND
YOU CAN SEE IN ON THE TOP FLOOR
WE ARE RESERVING THE ROOF OF A
FOURTH FLOOR EACH END OF THE
BUILDING FOR OUTDOOR AMENITIES
SO PEOPLE WILL HAVE AN OUTDOOR
LOUNGE THAT THEY CAN GO OUT TO
THAT WILL HAVE A BEAUTIFUL VIEW
OF THE CITY SKYLINE AND THEN
YOU CAN SEE THE LAST TRY ON THE
BOTTOM THERE IS A ROOF PLAN
WHERE YOU CAN SEE WE ARE
PLANNING ON PUTTING A LARGE
QUANTITY OF SOLAR PANELS UP ON
THE ROOF.
WE WOULD PUT EVEN MORE BUT YOU
CAN ALSO SEE THAT WE'RE
RESERVING ROOM ON THE ROOFTOP
FOR THE HEAT EXCHANGERS, FOR
THE ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS, FOR
THE BUILDING.
WE WERE PROPOSING AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING SO WE'LL BE
USING ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS AND
THESE ARE SOME ELEVATIONS
MOVING AROUND THE BUILDING.
SO WE'RE GOING TO USE A PALLET
OF MATERIALS THAT HARMONIZES
WITH THE CURRENT OF MATERIALS
THAT ARE IN THE EXISTING
BUILDINGS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE BUILDING
EXTENDS OVER THE PARKING ON THE
ONE IN SOME WOULD BE STARTING
OUR 3D MODELING SKETCHES
CONCEPTS FOR THE BUILDING USING
THE ACTUAL SIDING MATERIALS
THAT ARE ON THE EXISTING
BUILDINGS, SOME DIFFERENT VIEWS
AROUND THE BUILDING WE CAN ADD
ALL OF THE UNITS THAT WE FEEL
ARE APPROPRIATE FOR THE SITE
GIVEN THE PARKING AND THE OTHER
AMENITIES ON THE SITE AND DO IT
WITHIN THIS FIVE STOREY
STRUCTURE.
IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS WE'RE
HAPPY TO ANSWER.
THANK YOU.
MOVING ON TO STEP PRESENTATION
SASHA I JUST HAVE A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS TO ADD.
YOU SHOULD NOTE THAT THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT WOULD BE LIMITED
TO SEVENTY FIVE FEET PER THE
CONDITIONS PROPOSED BY THE
APPLICANT.
THERE IS A NET LOSS OF EIGHT
PARKING SPACES AND A NET GAIN
OF TEN EVEN INSTALLED 86
CAPABLE THAT ARE IN THE
VICINITY OF THIS NEW BUILDING.
AND ON AUGUST 23, 2023, THE
ZIBA GRANTED A VARIANCE
OF SEVEN POINT ZERO EIGHT FEET
FROM YARD SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
AND STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF BOTH THE REZONING IN THE
SITE.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON A PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USERS CAN
FEATURE A VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS,
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED HER HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DAYS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA, MUTE YOUR
BACKGROUND NOISES SO WE CAN
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND YOUR
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THANK YOU CHARLIE.
CAN I EVER AGAIN SO THE
ADJACENT WETLANDS HERE ARE
AMONG THE LARGEST AND MOST
IMPORTANT IN THE CITY.
PLEASE KEEP THAT IN MIND AS YOU
DELIBERATE THEY ALSO CONNECT TO
UNDERGROUND TO OTHER WETLANDS
FURTHER SOUTH.
CERTAINLY FOLLOW THE MAP
RECOMMENDATION TO REQUIRE
CONSTRUCTION FENCING.
SO ABOUT ALL THAT YOU'RE
BUILDING HAPPY TO HEAR IT
SOUNDS LIKE THE SUSTAINABILITY
CONSULTANT IS HERE TONIGHT.
I ASSUME FROM CANDLEMAS
PARTNERS IT'S GOOD TO HAVE A
GOOD REPUTATION.
IT CAME OUT OF THE CITIZENS
PARTICIPATION MEETING THAT FOR
PHASE ONE BUILDER INSTALLED LOW
EFFICIENCY HEAT PUMPS ONLY TO
REPLACE THEM LATER WITH GAS
FURNACES AFTER COMPLAINTS ABOUT
HIGH ELECTRIC BILLS.
IT SOUNDS LIKE THE PETITIONERS
LEARNED FROM THIS CATALYST'S
MAY TWENTY TWENTY THREE
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
PROMISES AND ALL THAT REGARDING
USING QUOTE NEW COLD CLIMATE
TECHNOLOGY UNQUOTE.
SO I'M CURIOUS TO HEAR MORE
ABOUT THIS.
I HOPE YOU ARE AS WELL.
FOR ONE THING KIND OF ALL
ELECTRIC.
THE SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SPECIFIES A COMBINATION
OF GEOTHERMAL AND ELECTRIC
SPLIT SYSTEM HEAT PUMPS.
THIS IS CONFUSING TO ME BECAUSE
IT INFLATES THE SOURCE OF THE
WITH ITS DISTRIBUTION.
GEOTHERMAL IS THE SOURCE.
THE HEAT PUMPS ARE DISTRIBUTION
WHERE WILL THE GEOTHERMAL WELLS
BE LOCATED?
ARE THEY VERTICAL OR
HORIZONTAL?
WHETHER IT BE A COMBINATION
OF GEOTHERMAL AND AIR SOURCE
HEAT PUMPS, WILL THEIR SUPPORT
SYSTEM INVOLVE MANY SPLITS FOR
EACH OF THE UNITS OR CENTRAL
BUILDING THE RF SYSTEM AND WILL
THERE BE A GAS CONNECTION?
I REALLY HOPE THERE ISN'T.
FINALLY, THIS REALLY SHOULD BE
NET ZERO PERCENT HOUSE
CONSTRUCTION AS IN THE EU ZERO
PLAN IT IS NOW ENERGY STAR
CERTIFICATION.
THAT'S IT.
THAT DOESN'T CUT IT WHEN WE
NEED TO ELIMINATE NOT JUST
REDUCE NEW BUILDING EMISSIONS.
CATALIST HAS PASSED HOUSE
EXPERIENCE.
THEY PARTNERED WITH A KALAMAZOO
BUILDER WHICH WON AN AWARD FOR
A PASSIVE NET ZERO ENERGY HOUSE
RECENTLY.
THAT'S THE SAME HERE.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT?
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
COMMISSION SEEING NO ONE ELSE
IN PERSON.
ARE THERE FOLKS I WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY.
THERE ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
MR. GIVE IT JUST A SECOND
.
OK WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT WITHOUT OBJECTION
THERE'S TWO PROPOSED MOTIONS
HERE TONIGHT WITHOUT OBJECTION
I WILL TAKE WE WILL TAKE THEM
TOGETHER.
ALL RIGHT.
I'LL READ THE PROPOSED CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION MOTION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THE MAYOR
AND THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE OWL CREEK TO FACE TO
REZONING PETITION TO OUR FOUR
DENHA MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT AND ACCEPT THE
CONDITIONS TO LIMIT THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT TO SEVENTY FIVE FEET AS
STATED IN THE STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS LETTER, THE
SECOND MOTION IS ANN ARBOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDS
THAT THE MAYOR AND CITY APPROVE
OWL CREEK PHASE TWO SITE PLAN
AT 380 NEXEN ROAD SUBJECT TO
PROVIDING AN EIGHTY ONE
THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED SEVENTY
FIVE DOLLARS PARK CONTRIBUTION
PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE OF ANY
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER LITCH SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO KICK US
OFF COMMISSIONER WHITE THANKS.
BRINGING THIS PROPOSAL TO US
THIS UNTIL I GUESS WE WOULD
CONSIDER THIS AN ANTELOPE AND
CONTINUATION.
I TOURED THE SITE TODAY AND I
JUST HAD A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
SO I WAS APPRECIATIVE THAT MR.
MOORE ACKNOWLEDGED ALL OF THE
PARKING.
SO I'M GRATEFUL TO LEARN THAT
THERE WON'T BE ANY ADDITIONAL
PARKING.
IS THAT CORRECT?
OK, AND THEN ONE THING THAT WAS
SURPRISING I DIDN'T SEE BECRUX
AS I TOURED THE SITE AND AM I
CORRECT THAT THERE ARE NONE ON
THE JOB?
YEAH THAT WAY THE ZUN
PARTICIPANTS CAN HEAR YOU.
HELLO I'M ADAM BOSNIAC
REPRESENT THE DEVELOPER OF THE
PROJECT SO THE CURRENT BIKE
RACKS ARE LOCATED INSIDE THE
BUILDINGS WE STORAGE LOCKERS ON
EACH OF THE FLOORS AND INSIDE
EACH OF THE ROOMS THE STORAGE
LOCKERS ARE LOCATED OUR PLACES
FOR RESIDENTS, THE PROPERTY TO
STORE BIKES AND YOU PLAN TO DO
THAT IN THIS NEW WE DEFINITELY
PLAN TO PROVIDE CLASS A BIKE
STORAGE AND HOW ARE YOU
ATTENDING TO CARGO BIKES
BECAUSE A LOT OF A LOT OF GOOD
REQUIREMENTS ARE JUST CLASS A
SO GIVEN WHERE THIS SITE IS
THERE MIGHT BE FOLKS WHO WOULD
WANT TO BE ABLE TO GO TO THE
KROGER AND TAKE A CARGO BIKE
AND SO HOW WOULD THEY BE ABLE
TO STORE THAT GET ACCESS TO THE
GROUND LEVEL BECAUSE THEY'RE
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO LIFT
THAT UP.
IT CAN'T BE BELOW GROUND OR
ABOVE GROUND UNLESS THERE'S
LIKE A BIKE ELEVATOR.
SO WE COULD WE COULD CERTAINLY
ALLOCATE SPACE ON THE GROUND
LEVEL FOR CARGO BIKES.
HOWEVER, ERIC AND ADAM CAN
SPEAK TO THE FACT THAT THEY RUN
A SHUTTLE DOWN TO THE ROVER FOR
ATTENDANCE.
YEAH, BUT THAT THAT'S A THAT'S
ONE OPTION.
IT'S MORE GIVING PEOPLE THAT
OPTION THEMSELVES IF THEY WANT
TO HAVE A CUMBERBUND.
YEAH.
UNDERSTOOD.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE WE CAN
YEAH.
DEFINITELY MAKE SPACE FOR AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE WE CAN
THEN YOU'RE RIGHT I WAS
DEFINITELY MAKE SPACE FOR AND
CONFUSED.
THEN YOU'RE RIGHT I WAS
I DON'T KNOW IF MR. MORSE
CONFUSED.
SLIDES ARE STILL AVAILABLE BUT
I DON'T KNOW IF MR. MORSE
WE GOT A NUMBER OF COMMENTS
SLIDES ARE STILL AVAILABLE BUT
FROM YOUR NEIGHBORS WHO WERE
WE GOT A NUMBER OF COMMENTS
CONCERNED THAT YOU WOULD BE DIS
FROM YOUR NEIGHBORS WHO WERE
RESPECTING THE BUFFER BETWEEN
CONCERNED THAT YOU WOULD BE DIS
YOUR PROPERTY AND THEIRS AND
RESPECTING THE BUFFER BETWEEN
THE THE ADJACENT CONDOMINIUM.
YOUR PROPERTY AND THEIRS AND
BUT WHEN I WALKED THE SITE IT
THE THE ADJACENT CONDOMINIUM.
LOOKS LIKE THE DEVELOPMENTS AS
BUT WHEN I WALKED THE SITE IT
I'M LOOKING AT THIS IS ON IS
LOOKS LIKE THE DEVELOPMENTS AS
THAT THE NORTH AND THE NORTH
I'M LOOKING AT THIS IS ON IS
END AND SO THERE'S NO
THAT THE NORTH AND THE NORTH
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE'S JUST THE
END AND SO THERE'S NO
WETLANDS THAT IS CURRENTLY SO
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE'S JUST THE
SO YEAH.
WETLANDS THAT IS CURRENTLY SO
THE BERKELEY WAY FOLKS WE'VE
SO YEAH.
HEARD FROM A NUMBER OF THEM
THE BERKELEY WAY FOLKS WE'VE
SAYING THAT THEY'RE CONCERNED
HEARD FROM A NUMBER OF THEM
THAT YOU'RE GOING TO DISRUPT
SAYING THAT THEY'RE CONCERNED
THE FLORA AND FAUNA BETWEEN
THAT YOU'RE GOING TO DISRUPT
YOUR SITE AND THEIRS.
THE FLORA AND FAUNA BETWEEN
IS THAT IN YOUR PLAN?
YOUR SITE AND THEIRS.
OK, AND THEN AS I WALK THE SITE
IS THAT IN YOUR PLAN?
I ALSO NOTICED THAT THERE WAS A
OK, AND THEN AS I WALK THE SITE
LOT OF WATER RUNOFF THAT WAS
I ALSO NOTICED THAT THERE WAS A
COMING DOWN RIGHT AT THAT APEX
LOT OF WATER RUNOFF THAT WAS
.
COMING DOWN RIGHT AT THAT APEX
DO YOU HAVE THAT UP RIGHT.
.
RIGHT HERE IN THAT CORNER YOU
DO YOU HAVE THAT UP RIGHT.
CAN ACTUALLY SEE IT HERE WHERE
RIGHT HERE IN THAT CORNER YOU
THAT BLACK LINE IS.
CAN ACTUALLY SEE IT HERE WHERE
SO AS YOU ALL ARE DOING YOUR
THAT BLACK LINE IS.
STORM WATER AND ALL OF THAT
SO AS YOU ALL ARE DOING YOUR
LIKE HAVE YOU HAVE YOU SEEN
STORM WATER AND ALL OF THAT
THIS HAVE YOU ALREADY PLANNED
LIKE HAVE YOU HAVE YOU SEEN
TO ADDRESS IT?
THIS HAVE YOU ALREADY PLANNED
IS IT GOING TO BE AN ISSUE
TO ADDRESS IT?
BECAUSE YOU'RE PUTTING IN
IS IT GOING TO BE AN ISSUE
DIFFERENT KIND OF STORMWATER
BECAUSE YOU'RE PUTTING IN
MITIGATION BECAUSE IF YOU WALK
DIFFERENT KIND OF STORMWATER
IT RIGHT NOW YOU CAN JUST SEE
MITIGATION BECAUSE IF YOU WALK
IT THERE'S LIKE A TRAIL
IT RIGHT NOW YOU CAN JUST SEE
OF WATER THAT IS COMING.
IT THERE'S LIKE A TRAIL
I DON'T KNOW.
OF WATER THAT IS COMING.
I'M NOT SURE I GUESS WHERE THE
I DON'T KNOW.
WATER SOURCE YOU'RE TALKING
I'M NOT SURE I GUESS WHERE THE
ABOUT IS I MEAN THERE'S THERE'S
WATER SOURCE YOU'RE TALKING
DISCHARGE FROM THE EXISTING
ABOUT IS I MEAN THERE'S THERE'S
PARKING LOT SO I DON'T KNOW
DISCHARGE FROM THE EXISTING
PERHAPS IT'S EXISTING SNOW MELT
PARKING LOT SO I DON'T KNOW
THAT'S BURNING IN THE PARKING
PERHAPS IT'S EXISTING SNOW MELT
LOT IN THE SO ATTENTION.
THAT'S BURNING IN THE PARKING
BUT HOW DO WE WHERE DOES THE
LOT IN THE SO ATTENTION.
STORM WHO COVERS THE STORM
BUT HOW DO WE WHERE DOES THE
WATER AND IS THAT A PART OF THE
STORM WHO COVERS THE STORM
INFILL OR IS IT ALREADY
WATER AND IS THAT A PART OF THE
ACCOUNTED FOR?
INFILL OR IS IT ALREADY
JUST WONDERING I GUESS I'M NOT
ACCOUNTED FOR?
I'M YOU SORRY I DIDN'T ADDRESS
JUST WONDERING I GUESS I'M NOT
STAFF BUT IT WAS A STAFF
I'M YOU SORRY I DIDN'T ADDRESS
QUESTION.
STAFF BUT IT WAS A STAFF
I APOLOGIZE.
QUESTION.
YES.
I APOLOGIZE.
ON THE PREVIOUS OUR PHASE ONE
YES.
SITE PLAN STORMWATER DETENTION
ON THE PREVIOUS OUR PHASE ONE
WAS INCLUDED IN THAT PLAN AND
SITE PLAN STORMWATER DETENTION
ON THIS NEW HERE IT IS HERE YOU
WAS INCLUDED IN THAT PLAN AND
CAN SEE THAT THERE'S THERE'S A
ON THIS NEW HERE IT IS HERE YOU
POND JUST BELOW WHERE THE
CAN SEE THAT THERE'S THERE'S A
BUILDING WAS PROPOSED THAT
POND JUST BELOW WHERE THE
NEVER GOT BUILT AND ON THE NEW
BUILDING WAS PROPOSED THAT
PLAN IT IS IT'S STILL THERE BUT
NEVER GOT BUILT AND ON THE NEW
WE'LL, YOU KNOW, ACCOMMODATE
PLAN IT IS IT'S STILL THERE BUT
THE NEW ROOFTOP AND RUNOFF
WE'LL, YOU KNOW, ACCOMMODATE
CAUSED BY THE NEW BUILDING IN
THE NEW ROOFTOP AND RUNOFF
ADDITION TO WHAT IT'S ALREADY
CAUSED BY THE NEW BUILDING IN
TAKEN CARE OF .
ADDITION TO WHAT IT'S ALREADY
OK, ALL RIGHT.
TAKEN CARE OF .
THOSE WERE MY OPENING QUESTIONS
OK, ALL RIGHT.
BECAUSE YOU'VE ADDRESSED THE
THOSE WERE MY OPENING QUESTIONS
UNDER GROUND THE PARKING THAT
BECAUSE YOU'VE ADDRESSED THE
IS GOING TO BE BUILT OVER AND
UNDER GROUND THE PARKING THAT
THEN HOW MANY EV AND BECAUSE WE
IS GOING TO BE BUILT OVER AND
DON'T HAVE THE CHART ON THIS
THEN HOW MANY EV AND BECAUSE WE
SITE PLAN LIKE WE USED TO I'M
DON'T HAVE THE CHART ON THIS
SORRY I'M ASKING QUESTIONS THAT
SITE PLAN LIKE WE USED TO I'M
ARE SOMEWHERE ELSE.
SORRY I'M ASKING QUESTIONS THAT
NO USUALLY HAVE A CHART IN THE
ARE SOMEWHERE ELSE.
CHART TELLS THE ZONING IT TELLS
NO USUALLY HAVE A CHART IN THE
US EXACTLY EVERYTHING THAT'S
CHART TELLS THE ZONING IT TELLS
GOING TO BE BUILT AND I COULD
US EXACTLY EVERYTHING THAT'S
NOT FIND IT.
GOING TO BE BUILT AND I COULD
SO I'M ASKING REDUNDANT
NOT FIND IT.
QUESTIONS.
SO I'M ASKING REDUNDANT
I APOLOGIZE.
QUESTIONS.
I DID NOT INCLUDE THE PARKING
I APOLOGIZE.
CHART OK BECAUSE IT WAS VERY
I DID NOT INCLUDE THE PARKING
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO INTERPRET
CHART OK BECAUSE IT WAS VERY
BY THE TIME I FIGURED IT OUT I
DIFFICULT FOR ME TO INTERPRET
HAD JUST WRITTEN IT UP AND TO
BY THE TIME I FIGURED IT OUT I
GIVE YOU THE CHART WOULD HAVE
HAD JUST WRITTEN IT UP AND TO
JUST GENERATED ALL THOSE
GIVE YOU THE CHART WOULD HAVE
QUESTIONS ALL OVER AGAIN.
JUST GENERATED ALL THOSE
BUT IT IS HERE ON THE FIRST
QUESTIONS ALL OVER AGAIN.
PAGE OF THE SITE PLAN I'M
BUT IT IS HERE ON THE FIRST
WORKING ON A COUPLE MORE STAFF
PAGE OF THE SITE PLAN I'M
REPORTS RIGHT NOW AND I PROMISE
WORKING ON A COUPLE MORE STAFF
THAT I WILL HAVE THAT CHART.
REPORTS RIGHT NOW AND I PROMISE
IT'S OK.
THAT I WILL HAVE THAT CHART.
I JUST THAT'S WHERE I USUALLY
IT'S OK.
GET MY QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
I JUST THAT'S WHERE I USUALLY
I UNDERSTAND.
GET MY QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
SO THERE ARE THEY WILL THEY
I UNDERSTAND.
WILL BE THEY WILL HAVE A NET
SO THERE ARE THEY WILL THEY
LOSS OF EIGHT SPACES.
WILL BE THEY WILL HAVE A NET
RIGHT.
LOSS OF EIGHT SPACES.
AND THEY BASED ON HOW MANY ARE
RIGHT.
THEY ADDING THEY'RE NOT ADDING
AND THEY BASED ON HOW MANY ARE
ANY THEY'RE LOSING A THEY'RE
THEY ADDING THEY'RE NOT ADDING
NOT ADDING ANY EV PARKING
ANY THEY'RE LOSING A THEY'RE
THEY'RE ADDING YES THEY'RE
NOT ADDING ANY EV PARKING
ADDING TEN EV INSTALLED AND
THEY'RE ADDING YES THEY'RE
EIGHTY SIX CAPABLE AND WHERE
ADDING TEN EV INSTALLED AND
WHERE ARE YOU PUTTING THESE ON
EIGHTY SIX CAPABLE AND WHERE
THE EXISTING ROW OF PARKING
WHERE ARE YOU PUTTING THESE ON
NEXT TO THE NEW BUILDING.
THE EXISTING ROW OF PARKING
OK SO THEY'RE THEY'RE RUNNING
NEXT TO THE NEW BUILDING.
THE BUILDING.
OK SO THEY'RE THEY'RE RUNNING
YEAH THERE MAY BE SOME ON ON
THE BUILDING.
THE DRIVE UNDER SPACES ON THAT
YEAH THERE MAY BE SOME ON ON
LITTLE LOT AT STOBBS OFF ON THE
THE DRIVE UNDER SPACES ON THAT
ON THE OK ON THE EAST END
LITTLE LOT AT STOBBS OFF ON THE
OF THE BUILDING I BELIEVE THAT
ON THE OK ON THE EAST END
THERE ARE SOME UNDERNEATH THE
OF THE BUILDING I BELIEVE THAT
BUILDING AS WELL BUT BUT IT'S
THERE ARE SOME UNDERNEATH THE
IT'S IT'S THAT PARKING AREA
BUILDING AS WELL BUT BUT IT'S
WHERE ALL OF THOSE 96 WILL BE
IT'S IT'S THAT PARKING AREA
LOCATED JUST OFF THE BUILDING.
WHERE ALL OF THOSE 96 WILL BE
THANK YOU.
LOCATED JUST OFF THE BUILDING.
THANK YOU MR. LITCH.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
THANK YOU MR. LITCH.
THAT HAVE TIME COMMISSIONER
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMENTS
ABRAM'S I JUST WANT TO ADD A
THAT HAVE TIME COMMISSIONER
LITTLE BACKGROUND ABOUT THE
ABRAM'S I JUST WANT TO ADD A
DISCREPANCY BETWEEN THE CURRENT
LITTLE BACKGROUND ABOUT THE
HEIGHT OF THE NEW BUILDING AND
DISCREPANCY BETWEEN THE CURRENT
THE LIMITED HEIGHT AND THE
HEIGHT OF THE NEW BUILDING AND
CONDITIONS.
THE LIMITED HEIGHT AND THE
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S A
CONDITIONS.
QUESTION FOR STAFF OR FOR THE
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S A
PETITIONER BUT IT'S A CURRENT
QUESTION FOR STAFF OR FOR THE
BUILDING DESIGNED AT SIXTY FEET
PETITIONER BUT IT'S A CURRENT
AND THE LIMIT IS SET AT SEVENTY
BUILDING DESIGNED AT SIXTY FEET
FIVE.
AND THE LIMIT IS SET AT SEVENTY
SO THE SEVENTY FIVE ALLOWS FOR
FIVE.
TAKING THE HEIGHT NOT TO THE
SO THE SEVENTY FIVE ALLOWS FOR
PARAPET OF THE MAIN BUILDING
TAKING THE HEIGHT NOT TO THE
BUT ALSO THE STAIR TOWERS AN
PARAPET OF THE MAIN BUILDING
ELEVATOR OVERRIDES WE'VE
BUT ALSO THE STAIR TOWERS AN
ELECTED TO EXTEND THE STAIR
ELEVATOR OVERRIDES WE'VE
TOWERS ALL THE WAY TO THE ROOF
ELECTED TO EXTEND THE STAIR
SO WE COULD SERVE AS THE PANELS
TOWERS ALL THE WAY TO THE ROOF
WITHOUT TRYING TO CRAWL THROUGH
SO WE COULD SERVE AS THE PANELS
A HATCH AND AS A FUNCTION
WITHOUT TRYING TO CRAWL THROUGH
OF THE CITY ZONING OUT YOU HAVE
A HATCH AND AS A FUNCTION
TO MEASURE TO THAT THE TOP
OF THE CITY ZONING OUT YOU HAVE
OF THOSE EXTENDED STAIR TOWERS.
TO MEASURE TO THAT THE TOP
SO EVEN THOUGH MOST OF THE
OF THOSE EXTENDED STAIR TOWERS.
BUILDING IS NOT THAT HIGH,
SO EVEN THOUGH MOST OF THE
TECHNICALLY THERE IS A PART
BUILDING IS NOT THAT HIGH,
THAT IS THAT HIGH AND THAT'S
TECHNICALLY THERE IS A PART
WHY IT'S SO THAT WE'RE
THAT IS THAT HIGH AND THAT'S
CURRENTLY SEEING THE BUILDING
WHY IT'S SO THAT WE'RE
WHERE MOST OF THE MASS IS THIS
CURRENTLY SEEING THE BUILDING
FIFTY NINE POINT EIGHT.
WHERE MOST OF THE MASS IS THIS
BUT THE STAIR TOWERS DO EXTEND
FIFTY NINE POINT EIGHT.
BUT EVERYTHING COMES UNDER THE
BUT THE STAIR TOWERS DO EXTEND
SEVENTY FIVE FOOT.
BUT EVERYTHING COMES UNDER THE
THANK YOU.
SEVENTY FIVE FOOT.
THAT'S ALL FOR NOW.
THANK YOU.
THANKS.
THAT'S ALL FOR NOW.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
THANKS.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
IT'S JUST A FOLLOW DARKCOIN ON
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THAT.
IT'S JUST A FOLLOW DARKCOIN ON
WHY THE CONDITION WHY THE
THAT.
CONDITION?
WHY THE CONDITION WHY THE
THERE WERE CONCERNS EXPRESSED
CONDITION?
THAT THIS ISN'T PARTICIPATION
THERE WERE CONCERNS EXPRESSED
MEANING THAT WE COULD GO ONE
THAT THIS ISN'T PARTICIPATION
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET AND
MEANING THAT WE COULD GO ONE
THAT WAS ALARMING TO THE PEOPLE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET AND
AT THE CITIZENS PARTICIPATION
THAT WAS ALARMING TO THE PEOPLE
MEETING AND WE DON'T INTEND TO
AT THE CITIZENS PARTICIPATION
GO UNDERGROUND TO BE SO AS A AS
MEETING AND WE DON'T INTEND TO
A
MEASURE TO ASSUAGE THEM THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE A
TOUGH STORY OR ELEVEN STORY
HIGH RISE.
THAT'S WHAT I THINK YOU DID.
I ALSO I THINK THAT LIKE THIS
LIKE YOU'RE RIGHT BY A HIGHWAY
WHICH I HAVE ANOTHER QUESTION
ABOUT THAT I THINK THIS JUST
FEELS TO ME IT WOULD PROBABLY
LOOK REALLY ON A SCALE WITH THE
CURRENT BUILDINGS ON THE SITE
THAT I THINK ARE THREE FEET BUT
I MEAN THREE STORIES, EDDIE,
REALLY, REALLY OUT OF SCALE IF
THEY WERE THREE FEET ALONG WITH
YOU GUYS.
BUT I DON'T KNOW.
I'M JUST I WOULD I WOULD NOT BE
OPPOSED TO NO CONDITION
PERSONALLY I'M NOT SAYING I'M
MAKING THAT MOTION OR ANYTHING
BUT JUST THROWING IT THERE
BEING SO CLOSE TO A HIGHWAY.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT ANY SORT
OF NOISE AND AIR QUALITY
MITIGATION.
IT IS PLANNED FOR THE BUILDING,
PARTICULARLY NOISE BECAUSE
WE'RE WE ARE DESIGNING A VERY
TIGHT ENVELOPE FOR THE BUILDING
FOR ENERGY CONSERVATION USING A
THERMALLY INSULATED THERMALLY
BROKEN ENVELOPE.
THOSE BY DEFAULT ARE VERY GOOD
OF SOUND ATTENUATION.
AND SO WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
THE SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS
INSIDE THE UNITS WILL BE A
DETERRENT TO ANYBODY LIVING IN
THE UNIT.
THEY THEY ARE CERTAINLY NOT
DOING THAT FOR THE TENANTS
OF THE EXISTING BUILDINGS.
SO WE DON'T WE AREN'T DOING
ANYTHING OVER AND ABOVE THE
THERMAL REQUIREMENTS WHICH ARE
YIELDING ACOUSTIC IMPEDIMENTS.
WHAT'S THE ACTC RATING TO THE C
RATING IN THE NEXT YEAR ALSO
IT'S PROBABLY GOING TO BE IN
THE MID 60S.
OH WELL THAT'S COOL.
OK, THANKS.
I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER MILLS.
I THINK THIS FIRST ONE IS FOR
STAFF BUT MAYBE NOT THE
VARIANCE THAT WAS GRANTED.
I CAN'T FIGURE WHICH PROPERTY
LINE ARE WE TALKING ABOUT.
IF YOU LOOK ON THE SCREEN RIGHT
NOW OFF OF THE SOUTH EAST
CORNER OF THE PARKING LOT,
THERE'S A MEASUREMENT THERE TO
THE SET BACK.
CAN YOU SEE THAT?
I'M SORRY.
I CAN'T POINT AT IT.
OK, SO THE SOUTHEAST CORNER
OF THE NORTH EAST NEW APARTMENT
.
YES.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT GUYS.
YES, YES.
OK, BECAUSE I WAS GOING TO SAY
AND THAT ACTUALLY LEADS TO MY
NEXT QUESTION THIS SO IT WAS A
VARIANCE GRANTED FOR R FOR D
EVEN THOUGH IT WAS IS CURRENTLY
ZONED IS AH FOR A CORRECT
BECAUSE THEY WERE GOING TO
APPLY FOR THAT OK THE VARIANCE
FROM THE PROPOSED ZONING AND IF
IT WEREN'T ZONED THE VARIANCE
WOULD JUST GO AWAY.
GOT IT.
OK AND MAKE SURE YOU GET YOUR
VARIANCE BEFORE YOU GO THROUGH
ALL OF THE REST OF THE WORK
WHICH OK THAT'S THIS IS ALL ONE
PARCEL.
YES OK SO AND I THINK THIS IS
GETTING TO COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT WHAT YOU WERE
SAYING AND ALSO I WAS TRYING TO
FIND IT THANK YOU FOR POINTING
ME TO THE FRONT PAGE.
ZOOM IN ON THIS.
YEAH.
IT'S SO I THINK THAT THIS IS
TOTALLY WISE AND THIS IS THE
PLACE TO PUT BUT I COULD ALSO
LIKE THIS ALLOWS NOW A LOT MORE
DEVELOPMENT ON THIS SITE.
IT IS NOT MAXIN.
IT'S NOT THAT MIGHT BE CLOSE TO
MAXING OUT FOR THIS PARTICULAR
BUILDING BUT PER THE CHART THIS
REZONING ALLOWS THERE IT WILL
TOTAL THREE HUNDRED AND NINETY
FIVE DWELLING UNITS AND THEY
WOULD BE ALLOWED IN THE FUTURE
TO HAVE UP TO THEY'RE ALLOWED
TO HAVE UP TO SIX HUNDRED AND
NINETY ONE.
SO I THINK AND IF I'M NOT
MISTAKEN THIS REZONING AGAIN
AND THE NEW HEIGHT LIMIT APPLY
TO THE WHOLE THING.
SO THIS IS WHERE I PARTICULARLY
ALONG THE EDGE.
I'M NOT SURE THAT I WOULD YOU
HUNDRED PERCENT RIGHT.
BUT THIS SEEMS TO BE THE PLACE
TO PUT BUT I DON'T KNOW THAT IF
WE EXTRAPOLATE WHAT THAT LOOKS
LIKE IN THE FUTURE ON THE ONE
HAND THIS IS NEW BUT THAT I
KNOW I DYADS BECAUSE I DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND IT SO I DIDN'T GET
IT.
I WANTED VIRI SO IT'S NEW.
I IMAGINE IT'S GOING TO BE
THERE FOR A WHILE.
SO I I THINK THAT MAKES SENSE.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
EVERYBODY'S AWARE IT'S NOT LIKE
THIS ALLOWS FOR A LOT MORE HERE
.
I'M REALLY EXCITED THAT THIS
MEAN THAT THIS CAN BE DONE WITH
LESS PARKING THAN WAS BEFORE
MORE HOUSES, LESS PARKING AND I
THINK THAT THAT'S THAT MAKES
SENSE.
I MEAN WHEN YOU COMPARE THE
WHAT'S ALLOWED IN R FOR A TO R
FOR D HEIGHT IS THE DIFFERENCE.
IT'S THE KEY DIFFERENCE THE
REST OF THE SET BACKS IF YOU
HAVEN'T DONE A COMPARISON CHART
AREN'T THAT DIFFERENT BUT TWO
AND A HALF TIMES THE DENSITY
WHICH IS GREAT AND THEN THE
HEIGHT DIFFERENCE.
SO I THINK THAT THIS ACTUALLY
KIND OF STRIKES THE BALANCE
BETWEEN THOSE AND ACTUALLY JUST
FOR WHAT IT'S WORTH WHEN I'M
LOOKING AT OUR DISTRICTS
THERE'S LIKE THIS WEIRD GAP.
EVERYTHING IS CAPPED AT LIKE
THIRTY FIVE FEET AND THEN ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FEET AND SO
THIS IS KIND OF LIKE WHAT YOU
WOULD EXPECT SOMEWHERE IN THE
MIDDLE BETWEEN THOSE AND SO I'M
COMFORTABLE WITH THAT AND I
THINK IT'S REALLY GREAT TO SEE
THIS MUCH MORE HOUSING WITHOUT
LIKE THAT MUCH MORE LIKE THIS.
THIS SEEMS LIKE THE THE RIGHT
KIND OF THING FOR HERE.
BUT I JUST IN CASE OTHER PEOPLE
DIDN'T PICK THAT UP, I AM ALSO
CURIOUS ABOUT WELL TWO THINGS I
DIDN'T NOTICE IN STREAM WENT TO
ALESCI BUT MAYBE I MISSED IT
THE OFFICE AND SUSTAINABILITY
FOR THEIR REVIEW AND I JUST
THOUGHT MAYBE IT'S I JUST DON'T
KNOW THE POLICY WHEN WHEN THEY
REVIEW THINGS AND WHEN THEY
DON'T I CAN LOOK IT UP ON
SCREEN IF YOU LIKE RIGHT NOW I
CAN SPEAK TO THAT.
WELL MAYBE JILL LOOKS FOR I'M
SORRY OUT THAT HER LOOKS HER
RECORDS BUT I ACTUALLY DID HAVE
AN UPDATE ON THAT THAT I MEANT
TO SHARE WITH THE COMMISSION IN
OUR DISTRIBUTION CHART WE HAVE
INTERNALLY WHERE DO WE ROUTE
THINGS WHETHER IT'S A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT ONLY REASONINGS AND
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS THAT
ACTUALLY CONTINUE ON TO CITY
COUNCIL ARE ALWAYS ROOTED TO
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND INNOVATIONS THAT WAS
MODIFIED A FEW MONTHS AGO FOR
BASICALLY PROJECTS
OF SIGNIFICANT SCALE THAT WOULD
HAVE THE BASICALLY NAMED
PROJECT WHERE WE THOUGHT THEY
WOULD HAVE THE MEANS TO
INCORPORATE EXTENSIVE
SUSTAINABILITY AND THAT WAS
SORT OF NEGOTIATED CONVERSATION
WITH MR. WILDSMITH TOMORROW IS
MANAGER WAS MY LAST DAY AT THE
CITY AND SO WE WILL NOT HAVE A
REVIEWER FOR THE TIME BEING
FROM THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATIONS.
WE ARE WORKING TO TRY AND GET
SOME BULLETS THAT WOULD HELP US
TO REQUEST A SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT AND WHAT WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR US TO CAPTURE AND
THEN PASS ON IN THE STAFF
REPORTER AND MATERIALS ONTO
THIS BODY AND WHERE APPLICABLE
CITY COUNCIL.
BUT THAT'S ALL TO SAY THAT IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT IF PLANNER
THATCHER WAS FOLLOWING OUR
DISTRIBUTION FAITHFULLY AND
KNOWING THAT THE LARGE MAJORITY
OF HER WORK IS IN OUR HISTORIC
PRESERVATION REALM, SHE MAY
HAVE JUST FOLLOWED OUR
DISTRIBUTION CHART SO IT MIGHT
NOT HAVE GONE TO THEM.
SO THIS WAS FIRST DISTRIBUTED
IN MAY OF 2003.
SO THIS IS A SITE PLAN THAT I
INHERITED.
IT WAS ROUTED TO MR. WILESMITH
AND IT IS HIS REVIEW IS MARKED
IS NOT REQUIRED SO I DON'T KNOW
IF THERE WERE NO COMMENTS ABOUT
IT.
I DON'T KNOW IF THIS WAS DONE
DIFFERENTLY A YEAR AGO.
I DON'T KNOW WHY BUT WAS ROUTED
TO HIM.
SO HE DID GET NOTIFICATION THAT
IT EXISTED.
GOT IT.
GREAT.
AND THEN THE OTHER PART OF IT
IS THAT I'M TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHERE I CAN FIND THE
DETAILS ABOUT WHAT IT IS AND
WHETHER IT'S IN IT LIKE A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
IS THERE A DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT FOR THIS?
THERE IS NO DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT FOR THIS PROJECT, NO.
OK, WHICH IS WHY THE MOTION
LOOKS A LITTLE FUNNY BECAUSE IT
HAS THE PARK'S CONTRIBUTION.
YEAH.
BAKED INTO THE MOTION BECAUSE
THERE'S NO DEVELOPMENT GOING TO
PUT IT INTO THAT WAS THE ONLY
THING THAT IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
NEEDED FOR.
SO ON THE ELECTRIFICATION FOR
EXAMPLE, HOW DO WE KNOW THAT
THAT'S LIKE WHAT'S THE TEETH IN
THAT?
IS IT LIKE WE'RE YEAH THAT'S A
GOOD QUESTION.
IT'LL HAVE TO IT'LL HAVE TO BE
LOOKED AT WHEN IT COMES THROUGH
FOR YOU WHEN IN SEVILLE PLAN
REVIEW AND WHEN IT COMES IN FOR
BUILDING PERMITS
I MEAN WE
WOULD START WOULD LOOK AT IT
ANYWAY WITH OR WITHOUT A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
WE STILL MAKE SURE THAT THE
PLANS MATCH WHAT WAS APPROVED.
SO I WANT TO JUST VERIFY THAT
SHOWN THE FACT THAT IT'S ALL
ELECTRIC THE TYPICALLY I THINK
IT'S THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT.
RIGHT THAT IS LAID OUT LIKE
THIS IS WHAT WE'RE EXPECTING OR
THIS IS THE THERE'S THE SOLAR
READY.
RIGHT.
WE KNOW WHERE WE PUT THE SOLAR
PANELS AND THEN THERE'S THE
LIKE.
WE EXPECT THIS WATTAGE MORE
SQUARE FOOTAGE OF SOLAR PANELS
SP'S SO I'M JUST TRYING TO AND
MAYBE IT'S IN THIS PLAN AND I
JUST DIDN'T CONTROL EFFORT.
NO APPROPRIATELY.
IT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
AND IF THE APPLICANT WOULD LIKE
TO FILL US IN ON WHETHER THAT'S
BAKED INTO THE SITE PLAN OR NOT
AND IF I COULD ALSO JUST CHIME
IN WHILE THEY'RE DOING THAT IF
THEY'RE IS NOT INCENTIVE FOR
SUSTAINABILITY THAT THE
APPLICANT IS TAKING ADVANTAGE
OF OR ANY REQUIREMENT IN OUR
CODE , THEN THEY WOULD NOT BE
REQUIRED TO DO THAT AS A
CONDITION OF APPROVAL.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
CERTAINLY.
BUT SINCE THIS IS A REZONING
THAT COULD VECTOR AND AND IN
PART IT'S BECAUSE IF WE'RE
TOLD
THIS IS AN ALL ELECTRIC
BUILDING LIKE I THINK THAT I'M
JUST CURIOUS HOW THE PETITIONER
IS YEAH.
WHERE THAT'S DOCUMENTED AND
WHAT THE TEETH ARE THERE.
I THINK IT'S A GOOD POINT WITH
THE PETITIONER LIKE TO GIVE US
A LITTLE BIT OF FEEDBACK BUT
CONSULTATION WITH THE OWNER
HE'S HAPPY TO ADD A CONDITION
BEYOND MY LIMIT AT THE NEW
BUILDING BE ALL ELECTRIC AS
PART OF THE CONDITIONAL
REZONING I'M QUITE SURE
CONCERNS I MEAN I THINK THAT
THAT CERTAINLY ASSUAGES THAT.
I THINK THE QUESTION THAT I
WOULD HAVE IS WHETHER THAT IS
FOR THIS NEW BUILDING OR ANY
NEW DEVELOPMENT THAT WOULD
OCCUR ON THIS RECENT SITE.
I MEAN I WOULD SAY THAT IT
WOULD BE A CONDITION FOR THIS.
I WOULD SAY WE WOULD OFFER IT
AS A CONDITION FOR THIS THIS
THIS SITE KLAM, WE'RE NOT
PLANNING ON REBUILDING OR
REMODELING ANY OTHER BUILDINGS
CERTAINLY.
I MEAN I HOPE NOT THAT WOULD BE
TERRIBLY UNSUSTAINABLE AT THIS
POINT TO REDEVELOP THE SITE WE
NEED A NEW SITE PLAN AND THEN
YOU WOULD HAVE I DON'T KNOW HOW
THAT CONDITION THAT CONDITION
DOESN'T RUN WITH YOU IF YOU
LIKE MY APPROVAL PROCESS I
DON'T KNOW HOW TO BE SURE.
GROWTH IS CERTAINLY THERE WOULD
BE A CONDITION OF THE NEW
BUILDING BUT WE HAD TWO MOTIONS
.
ONE IS ABOUT THE REZONING AND
ONE IS ABOUT THE SITE PLAN.
SO CAN'T THE ELECTRIFICATION
ATTACHED AS A CONDITION TO THE
SITE PLAN IN MOTION AS OPPOSED
THE REZONING MOTION I'M LOOKING
AT?
YEAH THATCHER YES.
OK AND THAT WOULD BE THAT WOULD
MEAN IT'S ATTACHED TO THE SITE
WHEN THE COMMITMENT TO
ELECTRIFICATION, NOT TO THE
REZONING THAT WOULD BE VERY
HEAVY FOR THE COMMISSIONER
WHICH SO JUST FOLLOWING ON WITH
WHAT COMMISSIONER ABRAMS JUST
SUGGESTED WOULD THAT THEN CARRY
FORWARD AS I THINK COMMISSIONER
MILLS WAS LEADING US TOWARDS IF
THEY DID ANOTHER INFILL ON THIS
DEVELOPMENT BECAUSE IT'S
ATTACHED TO THE REZONING SO
THEY COULD PROMISE
ELECTRIFICATION TO GET THIS
REZONING AND THEN MAYBE IN THE
MIDDLE WHERE THEY HAVE THESE
PARKING GARAGES AND CARPORTS
TEAR THAT DOWN AND BUILD A
BUILDING THAT WOULD NOT HAVE TO
BE ELECTRIFIED AND IT WOULD NOT
COME BACK TO US BECAUSE IT IS
NOT CHANGING THE FLIGHT PLAN.
SO THEY WOULD BE PERMITTED TO
BUILD THAT, WOULD YOU?
BECAUSE WE HAD MORE DENSITY OR
UNITS WOULDN'T WE HAVE TO GO
BACK FIRST?
YEAH, BUT AREN'T THEY ALREADY
APPROVED OR THE DENSITY YOU
KNOW IT'S LIKE IF THERE WAS
JUST ASKING QUESTIONS AND
SIMILARLY I MEAN I WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT I UNDERSTAND THIS IF
THAT'S OK.
I'M SORRY BUT I STARTED TO FEEL
SORRY BECAUSE THESE TWO THINGS
ARE SEPARATE AND BECAUSE THE
REZONING IS NOT TYING THEM TO
ACTUALLY DOING THE BUILDING
THAT IS IN THE SECOND MOTION.
I'M IT'S NOT JUST ONLY FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT ONCE THIS IS
REZONED THE CONDITIONS CONTINUE
ON BUT ANYTHING THAT'S ANY
CONDITIONS THAT ARE PUT ON THE
SITE PLAN DO NOT CONTINUE.
AND SO THAT'S I PERSONALLY I
AGAIN I'M UNCOMFORTABLE WITH
HAVING THE CONDITIONS.
I ASKED WHAT WAS FRIENDLY I
CAN'T REQUEST REQUIRE A
CONDITION THAT'S WHAT STARTED
THIS.
I'M UNCOMFORTABLE WITH THAT
CONDITION ONLY BEING ON THE
SITE PLAN I WOULD BE MORE
COMFORTABLE PERSONALLY EVEN
ELECTRIFICATION ONLY APPLIES TO
THIS PARTICULAR BUILDING TO BE
ON THE REZONING BECAUSE ONCE WE
REZONE IT AGAIN THIS BUILDING
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE BUILT.
SOMETHING ELSE COULD BE BUILT
THAT WOULD NOT NECESSARILY HAVE
ELECTRICITY BUT THAT WOULD NOT
BE ALL ELECTRIC.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT CHANGES
THE DEVELOPMENT THINKING ON
THIS I THAT YEAH COMMISSIONER
APRON'S I FEEL A LITTLE
CONFUSED.
I JUST WANT A LITTLE
CLARIFICATION.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, YOU'RE
SAYING YOU WOULD LIKE THE
ELECTRIFICATION CONDITION TO BE
ATTACHED TO THE REZONING
PETITION BUT THEN YOU SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT EVEN IF IT WAS
ONLY FOR THIS BUILDING.
SO IN THAT CASE WOULDN'T IT
STILL LEAVE OPEN THE LOOPHOLE
THAT YOU'RE CONCERNED ABOUT IF
THEY DIDN'T BUILD THIS BUILDING
AND THREE YEARS FROM NOW CAME
BACK WITH A DIFFERENT SITE
PLAN?
IT WOULD IT WOULD NO WOULDN'T
BE THERE ANYMORE.
I THANK YOU FOR THAT
CLARIFICATION.
I MEAN I THINK MAYBE IT COULD
BE FOR THE NUMBER OF UNITS LIKE
AT LEAST ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
ONE UNITS ON THE SITE OF THAT
COULD POTENTIALLY BE SIX
HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE NEED TO
BE FULLY ELECTRIC.
THAT'S THAT IS A STRONGER
CONDITION IN MY MIND THAN NOT
APPLYING IT TO THE ZONING AND
ONLY APPLYING IT TO THE SITE
PLAN PERSONALLY.
YEAH SO SO THAT IT GETS WEIRD.
YOU'RE TOTALLY RIGHT.
I MEAN THIS IS ANOTHER
THEORETICAL QUESTION FOR US TO
GRAPPLE WITH WHICH IS IS
UTILITY GOVERNANCE SOMETHING
THAT'S WITHIN THE BOUNDS OF THE
MICHIGAN PLANNING ENABLING ACT
OF GOVERNING PERMITTED USE FSR
AND SET BACK?
CAN WE BASICALLY SAY HEY WE
NEED THIS LISA ON THE ZONING
SIDE ON THE SITE LANDSIDE I
THINK I FEEL COMFORTABLE SAYING
HEY LET'S ATTACH THE
ELECTRIFICATION TO THE THE SITE
PLAN APPROVAL IN ADDITION TO
THOSE 82000 PARKS CONTRIBUTION.
RIGHT.
SAY YOU GOT TO GET A CEO YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO SHOW THAT IT'S
FULLY ELECTRIFIED.
OF COURSE THEY'RE GOING TO DO
THAT.
BUT I THINK ONE OF THE REASONS
THAT WE HAVEN'T YOU KNOW,
MODIFIED LIKE THE UDC FOR
EXAMPLE WAS SOME OF THE LEGAL
IMPLICATIONS OF ELECTRIFICATION
GOVERNANCE UNDER THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE .
SO I JUST WANT TO BRING THAT UP
AS I GO THERE JUST KIND
OF THEORETICAL CONSIDERATION.
SO I WOULD BE KIND OF ON BOARD
WITH SAY HEY TO GET A CEO DO
WHAT YOU SAID YOU WERE GOING TO
DO TO ME THAT THAT SEEMS
SIMPLER.
IT SEEMS MORE LEGIBLE TO ME.
WE DON'T HAVE TO CROSS THAT
LIKE MURKY WATERS OF LEGAL
CONTEST.
SO THIS IS A QUESTION THEN TO
STAFF.
IS THERE A PATHWAY THAT ONLY
ALLOWS THE REZONING IF THIS IF
THE SITE PLAN THAT WE SEE
BEFORE US IS BUILT BECAUSE
THAT'S A REGULARLY TRICKY
ISSUE.
THIS WOULDN'T BE THE FIRST TIME
THAT WE THERE THERE HAVE
THERE'S PRECEDENT THERE'S OTHER
PLANS THAT HAVE COME THROUGH
HERE WHERE BOTH HAVE COME
TOGETHER AND ULTIMATELY WHAT
WAS THE PLAN THAT WAS THAT WE
SAW IS NOT WHAT WAS BUILT.
AND SO I'M CURIOUS IF THERE'S
ANOTHER PATHWAY I'LL HAVE TO
CONSIDER THAT FURTHER.
WE COULD COME BACK TO IT LATER
IN THIS MEETING OR WE COULD
REVISIT IT AND A WORKING
SESSION.
JUST TELL ME WHAT YOUR PLEASURE
IS AND I COULD, UH, CONFER
PERHAPS WITH MANAGER LEONARD
SOME OTHER STUFF DURING THE
MEETING BUT I WOULD FEEL
COMFORTABLE RECOMMENDING
SOMETHING OTHER THAN A STRICTLY
FRAMED THE VOLUNTARY
CONTRIBUTION BY THE DEVELOPMENT
TEAM TO THE SITE PLAN I THINK
COULD BE APPROPRIATE MOVING
INTO I MEAN I DO THINK THAT
IT'S IMPORTANT TO TAKE INTO
CONSIDERATION SOME OF THE
CAUTIONS THAT ARE JUST SHARED
BY CHARLIE.
I HAVE SIMILAR UNDERSTANDING
OF SOME OF THE CHALLENGES
OF GETTING INTO ZONING AND I
WOULD WANT TO CONSIDER THAT FOR
THERE I DON'T KNOW I'D POINT
OUT THAT DOOR HAS OTHER ADVICE
FOR THE COMMISSION.
JUST ONE THING TO ADD THAT THE
CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE HAS
ALWAYS ADVISED PLANNERS TO
LIMIT ZONING CONDITIONS TO
ZONING ZONING FACTORS, YOU
KNOW, AREA HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT
THINGS LIKE THAT.
THIS STRAYS BEYOND THE
BOUNDARIES OF WHAT'S TYPICALLY
DESIGNATED IN A ZONING
ORDINANCE.
SO I WOULD BE CAUTIOUS TYING
ANYTHING NOT ZONING RELATED
DIRECTLY TO A ZONING REZONING
OF LAND.
COMMISSIONER, I HAVE A RELATED
QUESTION THAT'S NOT ABOUT
CONDITIONS.
IT IS BUT IT IS ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION WHICH IS
PRESUMABLY THE UTILITIES WERE
SIST WITHOUT A FULLY ELECTRIC
BUILDING IN MIND WITHOUT
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING IN
MIND.
WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT THIS
ONE?
THEY SAY THAT AT THIS POINT IN
THIS AREA OF THE CITY THEY HAVE
THE CAPACITY.
OK, THANK YOU.
IT'S A NEWER PART OF THE CITY
WITH THE THAT IS MANY
INCUMBENCIES IS THE CORE OF THE
CITY WHICH IS POTHOLDERS WINZ
AND CONTORTS AND CONDUCTORS AND
OTHER CHALLENGES.
OK, UM INTERESTING.
I DON'T HAVE I DON'T HAVE ANY
MORE QUESTIONS RIGHT NOW BUT
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
OF COMMENTS QUESTIONS THOUGHTS
COUNCIL BUDISH JUST I WONDER IF
WE COULD JUST CALL A FINAL
LITTLE BIT CONFUSED SO WE HAVE
A DEVELOPER WHO'S WILLING TO DO
AN ELECTRIFIED BUILDING.
YES THE BUILDING IS DESIGNED
WITH PRINCIPLES FOR ENERGY
CONSERVATION.
YES SOMETIMES WE FIND THAT IN
THE SITE PLAN NARRATIVE BUT I
DIDN'T SEE IT THERE DID I MISS
IT
.
OK UM SO WE WOULD LIKE TO WE
WOULD LIKE TO BE SURE THAT THAT
COMES THROUGH.
THAT'S OUR THAT'S OUR ISSUE.
WE'D LIKE TO BE SURE THAT THAT
COMES THROUGH AND ONE
POSSIBILITY WOULD BE IF THE
DEVELOPER WERE WILLING TO OFFER
AS A CONDITION ATTACHED TO THE
SITE PLANT OK, IT'S I FOLLOWED
EVERYTHING.
YES.
SO I'M A LITTLE CURIOUS AS TO
WHY THAT WHY DIDN'T IT COME
WITH THAT OFFER?
WHY DIDN'T THIS PROJECT COME TO
US WITH THAT OFFER SIMPLY
BECAUSE SINCE THERE AREN'T
REGULATIONS AROUND
ELECTRIFICATION TO SAY IS GREAT
AND WE'RE EXCITED BUT SINCE
THERE ARE NO REQUIREMENTS, WE
WOULDN'T KNOW IF WE WERE GOING
TO ACTUALLY GET THAT UNLESS IT
WERE OFFERED AS A CONDITION.
SO I'M JUST BECAUSE I ALSO
DON'T LIKE US TALKING TOO MUCH
ABOUT CONDITIONS AT THE TABLE.
SO I'M JUST CURIOUS AS TO WHY
IT DIDN'T COME WITH THAT
CONDITION AND I DON'T KNOW IF
I'M ASKING STAFF OR I'M ASKING
THE DEVELOPER YET THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM COULD
CERTAINLY PRESENT WHY THEY
DIDN'T SUGGEST THAT INITIALLY
AND THEIR VOLUNTARY CONDITIONS
I'M NOT SURE I'M NOT SURE
ETERNALS WE BELIEVE THAT WE DID
OFFER DURING THE MANY COURSES
OF REVIEWS WITH CITY STAFF WE
ALL CERTIFICATION IN COMPLIANCE
WITH ENERGY STAR STANDARDS AND
SOLAR PANELS ON THE ROOF.
WE'VE BEEN THROUGH MULTIPLE
PLANNERS.
JILL INHERITED THIS FROM
ANOTHER YOUR RETIRED AND I
CAN'T TELL YOU THAT I'VE
MEMORIZED EVERY PAGE OF ALL THE
SUBMISSIONS BUT IN ALL THE
DISCUSSIONS WE'VE HAD WITH THE
CITY OF THOSE WERE IMPORTANT
COMPONENTS OF THE PROJECT.
SO I DON'T THINK THAT'S A
CONDITION OF THIS PLAN.
WE WOULD HAVE ANY PROBLEM WITH
COMMITTING THE ENERGY STAR
COMPLIANCE AND THE
ELECTRIFICATION AND PUTTING
SOLAR PANELS ON THE ROOF OF THE
SOLAR CONSULTANT.
SO I THINK WE COULD GET 10000
KILOWATT HOURS ANNUALLY OFF
OF THE ROOF ALONE.
SO THOSE ARE THINGS THAT WE
EXPECTED TO DO AND WE'RE HAPPY
TO PUT THEM IN THE ZONING, NOT
THE ZONING, THE I CONDITIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
DID YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD?
I THINK SO.
I THINK WHAT YOU SAID IS YOU
THOUGHT YOU'D OFFERED THOSE AND
THAT YOU'RE QUITE WILLING TO
OFFER THEM AND I'M ONLY MAKING
SURE THAT I COMPLETELY
UNDERSTAND THIS AND PRESSING ON
THIS BECAUSE WHEN I NEED TO
TALK ABOUT THIS AT THE TABLE I
WANT TO BE ABLE TO TALK ABOUT
ALL THE GREAT THINGS THAT ARE
IN IT AND I WASN'T FULLY AWARE
OF ALL THOSE GREAT THINGS UNTIL
WE GOT HERE.
THANK YOU.
THERE ARE OTHER COMMISSIONERS,
COUNCIL MEMBER STAFF
COMMISSIONER WHITE TWO THINGS.
ONE, MR. BERGER ASKED ABOUT THE
WETLANDS AND HOW YOU PLAN TO
PROTECT THEM.
CAN YOU SPEAK TO THAT PLEASE?
YES, I KNOW HE DID MENTION THE
SONAR CONSTRUCTION FENCE.
WE WILL HAVE CONSTRUCTION
OF FENCE ALONG THE GREAT LIMITS
OF THE PROJECT AND IT WILL BE
ONLY PART OF THE REVIEW FOR THE
SOIL EROSION.
SO WE DO DO KIND OF RIDE THAT
BACK AND THEN I JUST AM BACK ON
THE EV CHARGING AND THE CAR'S
BECAUSE WHEN I WAS OUT AT THE
SITE I THOUGHT I COUNTED EIGHT
EXISTING.
THE SITE PLAN SAYS THERE ARE
FOUR EXISTING AND THEN ARE
ADDING TEN.
CAN YOU CLARIFY THAT
DISCREPANCY?
DID I MISS COUNT?
YEAH WELL WE YEAH I CAN TALK
ABOUT THAT SO THE ORIGINAL SITE
THE ORIGINAL SITE PLAN THAT WE
HAD PROPOSED DID FOR USB
CHARGERS WE'VE SINCE ADDED MORE
WE ACTUALLY ADDED WE'RE UP TO
EIGHT LEVEL TWO CHARGERS AND WE
ADDED A LEVEL THREE CHARGER ON
THE SITE AS WELL AND THE
TRANSFORMER ACQUIRED IN ORDER
TO PROVIDE AN EIGHT HUNDRED
VOLT CHARGER AND THE TEN ARE
COMING WITH THIS SITE PLAN ARE
IN ADDITION TO THE EIGHT THAT
ARE ALREADY EXISTING.
SO YOU'LL HAVE A TOTAL
OF EIGHTEEN LEVEL TWO AND ONE
LEVEL THREE.
THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, THANK YOU.
UM ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER MILLS?
I THINK THIS IS A STAFF
QUESTION AND SO THIS IS GETTING
BACK TO WORK FUNDAMENTALLY NOW
I THINK THE QUESTION BEFORE US
IS DOES IT MAKE SENSE TO REZONE
LIKE I MEAN THERE'S TWO
QUESTIONS AND ACTUALLY MAYBE WE
SHOULD SEPARATE THEM BECAUSE I
THINK ONE IS IS ARKADI THE
APPROPRIATE ZONING HOUR FOR D
WITH A SEVENTY FIVE FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT, THE APPROPRIATE ZONING
HERE AND THEN THE OTHER IS JUST
ADDING THIS BUILDING IN THIS
LOCATION MAKES US WITH THE
CONDITION THAT IT'S AS
DISCUSSED.
WELL IF THAT IS THE CONDITION
THAT IS OFFERED, CAN STAFF
REMIND ME WHAT THE CRITERIA
THAT WE SHOULD BE THINKING
ABOUT WHEN WE RE ZONING IS A
NOT TECHNICALLY STAFF BUT MY
COMMENT WAS ACTUALLY THAT WAS
GOING TO BE VERY SPECIFICALLY
AROUND BIG Q SO OK, YOU'LL MAKE
IT MORE MUCH MORE ELOQUENTLY AS
YOU ALWAYS DO BUT TO PAY FOR IT
.
SO MY THINKING WAS YOU'RE RIGHT
WHAT'S BEFORE US IS IS REZONING
REALLY THE APPROPRIATE RIGHT IS
IN THE CORRECT IT'S SO IN
ABSENCE OF A NEW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN WHAT WE HAVE TO REFER TO
IS THE LAND USE ELEMENT OF THE
2009 PLAN.
THIS SECTION IS ACTUALLY
SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT IN THE
SITE FOR AREA AND SO WHEN YOU
TAKE A LOOK IT DOES APPEAR THAT
THE RESIDENTIAL IS APPROPRIATE.
IT DOES MAKE COMMENTS THAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO SEE RESIDENTIAL
ON THE WEST SIDE OF NEXEN NOT
NECESSARILY THE EAST GIVEN SOME
OF THE WETLAND CONSIDERATIONS.
HOWEVER, AGAIN, GIVEN THE FACT
THAT YOU KNOW, SINCE 2009 OUR
CONTEXT OF POPULATION GROWTH,
HOUSING AND KNOW IMBALANCES
RELATIVE TO JOBS, WE HAVE TO
KIND OF TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION.
IS THIS AN APPROPRIATE REZONING
GIVEN THAT SITE FOR AS DENOTED
WITHIN THE LAND USE PLAN DOES
SPECIFICALLY INDICATE
RESIDENTIAL IS INAPPROPRIATE?
IT WAS ORIGINALLY THOUGHT THAT
THIS SHOULD BE RESEARCH JUST
GIVEN THAT IT'S KIND
OF ABUTTING THE HIGHWAY BUT IT
DOES SPECIFICALLY NOTE WITHIN
THE LAND SETTLEMENT PLAN THAT
THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE AREA FOR
RESIDENTIAL.
SO GIVEN THAT THAT WAS GOING TO
BE MY COMMENT.
SO I THINK IT'S A VERY APT
THANK YOU FOR THE TRANSITIONARY
QUESTION AND IF STAFF WANTED TO
ADD TO THAT COMMENT ABOUT ANY
OTHER CONDITIONS OR THOUGHTS
WITH RESPECT TO HOW TO EVALUATE
REZONING SPIRIDON THANK YOU.
DEFERENCE TO OUR COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND LAND USE ELEMENT PLAN
I THINK IS REALLY THE STANDARD
THAT WE HAVE TO GO BY AND SO
THE ONE AREA THAT GAVE ME PAUSE
WITH WAS WITH RESPECT TO AGAIN
SHOULD BE ON THE WEST SIDE
VERSUS THE EAST SIDE.
BUT AGAIN I'M GOING TO GIVE
SOME CREDENCE TO THE FACT THAT
PARKING STRUCTURES ALREADY
EXIST HERE.
THIS IS AN INFILL DEVELOPMENT
THAT TO ME THIS IS APT THIS IS
GOOD UTILIZATION ALREADY
IMPERMEABLE SURFACE AREA.
SO OVERALL FOR ME THIS CHECK'S
PRETTY MUCH ALL OF THE BOXES.
I THINK THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE
REZONING AS WELL AS THE SITE
PLAN THE TEETH WITH RESPECT TO
ELECTRIFICATION FOR ME IF IT'S
A FRIENDLY AMENDMENT I MEAN IF
IT MAKES EVERYONE FEEL MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH IT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THERE'S SOME LEVEL
OF TEETH AGAIN OTHERWISE SITE
PLANS THE UDC DOES NOT REALLY
MENTION OR I'M SORRY THE UDC
DOES NOT MENTION ELECTROPAC.
SO WITH THAT I WILL ASK THE
PETITIONER ARE YOU FRIENDLY TO
AMENDING THE THE SITE PLAN
MOTION TO ADD A CONDITION
OF ELECTRIFICATION IN ADDITION
TO THE EIGHTY ONE THOUSAND
DOLLAR PARK'S CONTRIBUTION
FRIENDLY IF THAT'S THE CASE
THEN I WILL MAKE A MOTION TO
ADD AND MODIFY THE SECOND
PROPORTION TO ADD
ELECTRIFICATION OF THE NEW NEW
BUILDING AS A PART OF THAT IN
ADDITION TO THE PARK CUT
CONTRIBUTION, I'M SURE STAFF
CAN WORK THROUGH THE LANGUAGE
OF THAT BUT I NEED A SECOND.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS, WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION OF THIS PARTICULAR
PROPOSED AMENDMENT DISCUSSION
COMMISSION RULES WHEN THE
PETITIONER IS GOING OVER THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS.
I ALSO HEARD THEM TALK ABOUT
THE SOLAR THAT AND I CONTROL
EFTS THE PLAN AND I SEE BUYING
SOLAR IN THERE AND ALSO ENERGY
STAR THE ENERGY STAR STANDARD
AND I'M CURIOUS IF THAT IS ALL
I WASN'T SURE IF THAT WAS YOUR
INTENTION TO AND THINKING ABOUT
THE CONDITIONS FOR THE PLAN
WE'RE FRIENDLY TO ADDING THE
CONDITION FOR ELECTRIFICATION
AT THIS TIME.
WE'VE DONE A LOT OF WORK IN
MODELING OUT THE COMPLIANCE
WITH ENERGY STAR.
WE'RE NOT AT THE POINT
OF CONSTRUCTION WHERE I'M READY
TO MAKE THAT PART OF THE
CONDITION TO THIS.
THAT IS OUR COMMITMENT AND
WE'RE PLANNING ON DOING THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT MAKING THE
FRIENDLY WE ARE FRIENDLY TO
ADDING THAT AS A CONDITION FOR
ELECTRIFICATION AT THIS TIME TO
THE CYCLER.
THANK YOU SO TO JUST SUMMARIZE
WHAT I HEARD COMMISSIONER
MILLS, YOU WERE LOOKING FOR
ENERGY STAR AND SOLAR PANELS AS
A PART OF THE POTENTIAL
CONDITION AND THE PETITIONER IS
SAYING WE'RE FRIENDLY TO
ELECTRIFICATION BUT WE'RE NOT
QUITE FAR ENOUGH ON MEPS TO SAY
YES, 1000 PERCENT WILL DO SOLAR
COMMISSIONER ADAMS
OPERATIONALIZING THIS WHAT WHEN
WE SAY CONDITIONS WE'RE SAYING
IN THE MOTION JUST LIKE THE
POWER CONTRIBUTION IS IS THE
CONDITION PRIOR TO THE ISSUANCE
OF THE CO2 CORRECT.
THAT'S HOW THAT'S THE YEAH.
YEAH.
SO YOU CAN'T YEAH.
GET A CALL UNTIL ESSENTIALLY
THANKS.
YEAH IT'S FULLY ELECTRIC
.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS WITH RESPECT
TO THE MOTION TO ADD
ELECTRIFICATION TO BE A
REQUIREMENT PRIOR TO THE
ISSUANCE OF COAL SEEING NONE DO
WE NEED A VOICE VOTE OR CAN WE
JUST DO IT ALL IN FAVOR?
YOU COULD YOU COULD TRY A VOICE
VOTE AND IF THEY GET CHAOTIC
WE'LL DO A ROLL CALL LIKE THAT.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
ALL THOSE IN OBJECTION NONE.
OK AMENDMENT IS PASSED.
OK, WE'RE BACK TO THE ORIGINAL
TWO MOTIONS AGAIN ONE ONE IS
THE REZONING TO R FOR D WITH
THE STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS
LIMITING IT TO SEVENTY FIVE
FEET AND THEN ALSO THE THE SITE
PLAN APPROVAL AGAIN BOTH
OF THESE TO CLARIFY ARE GOING
TO CITY COUNCIL AND NOW THIS
MOTION READS THAT THE
PETITIONER MUST PROVIDE EIGHTY
ONE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED
SEVENTY FIVE DOLLARS A
CONTRIBUTION AS WELL AS PROVIDE
A FULLY ELECTRIC BUILDING PRIOR
TO THE ISSUANCE OF NCCL.
DO WE HAVE ANY FURTHER COMMENT
THOUGHTS DELIBERATIONS?
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS?
SORRY CAN I DON'T THINK WE
ACTUALLY EXPLICITLY ASKED IF
THERE'S GOING TO BE A GAS
CONNECTION TO THIS BUILDING
PERIOD
IF IF THE SINCE THE
BUILDING WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC
THERE WOULD NO I DON'T FORESEE
A REASON THERE ISN'T A BUILDING
PLAN RIGHT NOW BUT A BUILDING
DRAWINGS YET.
BUT THERE WOULD BE NO REASON TO
HAVE A CONNECTION I GUESS.
I MEAN I THINK THIS IS ANOTHER
ONE OF THESE THINGS THAT
THERE'S REALLY NO GUARANTEE I'M
NOT SUGGESTING THAT WE CAN PUT
IT AS A CONDITION UNLESS
SOMEBODY ELSE THINKS WE COULD
PUT IT AS A CONDITION.
BUT UM SORRY LET ME JUST THINK
FOR A MINUTE.
LET ME ASK A MORE WHILE YOU'RE
THINKING JUST THE MORE KIND
OF PRACTICAL QUESTION JUST
GIVEN THE DTA WE HAVE OUTAGES
AND THINGS OF THAT NATURE FOR A
FULLY ELECTRIC BUILDING.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER PLANS FOR
BACKUP GENERATION AT THE SITE?
AGAIN, WE'RE NOT THAT FAR ALONG
IN THE EVOLUTION OF THE MEPS.
SURE IT'S POSSIBLE BUT I CAN'T
ANSWER THE QUESTION DO WE GET
FURTHER?
SURE.
AND FOR CLARIFICATION, MEP
STANDS FOR MECHANICAL
ELECTRICAL PLUMBING WHICH ARE
KIND OF EXPENSIVE STUFF.
SO MR. ABRAMS, I'M GOING TO
CIRCLE BACK TO THE HAVE
ANYTHING FURTHER ON.
YES.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH YEAH.
WE KNOW WE'RE GETTING MORE TO
THE SUBSTANCE OF THE PROPOSAL
AND I JUST DID WANT TO
UNDERSCORE THAT INFILL
DEVELOPMENT IS ESPECIALLY
VALUABLE AND INFILL DEVELOPMENT
BUT THIS IS VERY SENSITIVE TO
THE CONTEXT BOTH THE CONTEXT
OF THE WETLANDS AND ALSO THE
CONTEXT OF THE EXISTING HEIGHT
OF THE BUILDINGS.
SO WE'RE JUST ADDING A FIVE
STORY BUILDING TO PLACE WITH
THREE STOREY BUILDINGS AND WHAT
IS PROPOSED ARE STUDIO AND ONE
AND TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS
WHICH IS A PARTICULARLY SORT
SOUGHT AFTER KIND OF HOUSING IN
THE CITY.
IT IS VERY CLOSE.
WELL I I JUST AM VERY HAPPY TO
SEE THIS.
I THINK IT'S THOUGHTFUL AND I
APPRECIATE YOU BRINGING IT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER.
THIS I WILL ALSO ECHOED THAT
SENTIMENT.
YES.
ONE MORE QUESTION FOR THE
DEVELOPERS PETITIONERS ONE
OF YOUR NEIGHBORS WROTE IN AND
ASKED ABOUT POTENTIALLY ADDING
A BUS STOP IN A DEVELOPMENT.
IS THAT SOMETHING YOU ALL HAVE
CONSIDERED?
ARE YOU OPEN TO IT?
WHEN I LOOKED AT IT IT LOOKED
LIKE IT WAS ABOUT A HALF A MILE
FROM YOUR DEVELOPMENT TO THE
NEXT BUS STOP WHICH WOULD BE AT
BENDERN.
ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT AN EIGHTY
EIGHT?
I YES.
SO THERE'S A BUS STOP AT THE
RIGHT BY THE TRAFFIC CIRCLE
WHICH IS A LITTLE BIT LESS THAN
A HALF A MILE SOUTH OF OUR
PROPERTY RIGHT NOW.
WE WHEN WE ORIGINALLY GOT THE
SITE AND WE TALKED ABOUT HAVING
A LOOP FOR EIGHT TO COME TO OUR
SITE AND THEY WEREN'T WILLING
TO DISCUSS IT AT THAT TIME.
SOMETHING WE'RE OPEN TO
DISCUSSING CERTAINLY.
BUT WE ALSO DID PURCHASE OUR
OWN VEHICLE.
WE HAVE A THIRTY PASSENGER BUS
AND A DEDICATED DRIVER FOR THAT
BUS THAT DOES SEVERAL LOOPS PER
DAY FROM OUR PROPERTY DOWN TO
THE HOSPITAL CENTRAL CAMPUS AND
TO THE GROCERY STORE AND BACK
SO THAT OUR RESIDENTS CAN
UTILIZE THAT OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MICHELLE HAMMERSCHMIDT, I WANT
TO BELABOR THIS BUT I WANT TO
RESPOND TO THE THINGS THAT YOU
WERE SAYING ABOUT THE AREA THAT
WAS AWESOME.
BY THE WAY, YOU SHOULD BE HIRED
ON STUFF.
IT LOOKS LIKE TO THE WEST
OF NIXON.
THERE IS A LOT OF DEVELOPMENT
GOING ON IN THIS AREA REALLY
DOES LOOK VERY BUILT OUT AND IT
LOOKS LIKE THERE'S A LOT
OF PROTECTED AREAS SO I THINK I
THINK I'M JUST AGREEING WITH
YOU AND I LIKE JUST REALLY
UNDERSCORING THIS POINT LIKE
THIS SITE WHERE THERE'S ALREADY
PARKING AND LIKE WE'RE ADDING
DENSITY AND NOT PARKING.
THAT'S BETTER.
AND I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WAS
GOING TO SAY.
RIGHT.
LIKE I THINK THIS IS THE
PERFECT PLACE TO DO IT AND IT
MAKES IT AND THERE'S NOT REALLY
ANYWHERE ELSE LIKE IN THIS AREA
.
SO IF THE AREA PLAN WAS SAYING
LIKE THIS IS A GOOD PLACE FOR
HOUSING, THERE'S REALLY NO
WHERE LEFT IN THIS AREA FOR
HOUSING.
SO I THINK THIS IS THE PERFECT
PLACE IDENTITY DENSITY GOING
BACK TO THE QUESTION ABOUT GAS,
I I'M ASSUMING YOU KNOW, YOU
NEVER WANT TO ASSUME SO I'M
ASKING THE EXISTING BUILDINGS
HAVE GAS CONNECTIONS.
YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
THEY ALSO I THINK IT WAS
BROUGHT UP IN SOME OF THE
PUBLIC COMMENT BEFORE THIS WAS
THAT WE DID ATTEMPT TO INSTALL
ALL ELECTRIC HEATING AND
COOLING SYSTEM IN THE ORIGINAL
DEVELOPMENT.
WHAT ENDED UP HAPPENING WAS
THERE IS ACTUALLY THE EQUIPMENT
THAT WE PURCHASED.
IT TURNED OUT TO BE THE WRONG
CHOICE OF EQUIPMENT AND THE
HEAT PUMP THAT AUGMENTS THE
RESISTANCE HEATING WHICH IS
JUST BASICALLY ELECTRIC AND A
PLUG INTO THE WALL STOPS AT 40
DEGREES AMBIENT TEMPERATURE AND
THERE ARE HEAT PUMPS THAT RUN
TO ZERO DEGREES.
AMBIENT TEMPERATURE IN ORDER TO
FIX THAT ISSUE.
AND WE HAD FOR EXAMPLE, WE HAD
PEOPLE LIVING IN STUDIO
APARTMENTS THAT WERE GETTING
THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS MONTHLY
ELECTRIC BILLS AND IT REALLY
WASN'T A REASONABLE WAY FOR
ANYONE.
IT WASN'T EFFICIENT, IT WASN'T
THE RIGHT ANSWER AND OTHER THAN
REPLACING ALL OF THE EQUIPMENT,
THE DECISION WAS TO INSTALL SIX
GAS BOILERS INTERNALLY THAT
DIDN'T HAVE HYDRAULIC FLUID
THAT RUNS IMPACTS PIPING
THROUGHOUT THE BUILDING TO THE
COILS OF THE OF THE MECHANICALS
AND IT DOES POWER.
SO YES, THERE IS GAS IN THOSE
BUILDINGS BUT THAT IS THAT WAS
A WE HAVE THE EDUCATION NOW ON
HOW TO AVOID THAT.
THOSE THOSE PIECE OF EQUIPMENT
ARE VERTICAL TERMINAL
AIRCONDITIONERS AND THE HEAT
PUMP IS INSIDE OF THE UNIT.
THE THE PLAN THAT WE HAVE NOW
IS A SPLIT SYSTEM WITH A
CONDENSER ON THE ROOF AND THEN
THE THERMODYNAMIC FROM YOU KNOW
THAT THE CONDENSER ARE WHERE
THE THE HEAT PUMP IS LOCATED TO
DRAW IN THE HEAT DURING THE
COLD MONTHS OF THE YEAR TO THEN
BRING TO THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM
AND THOSE ARE MUCH MORE
EFFICIENT AND WE'RE HOPING THAT
THAT WILL SOLVE THAT PROBLEM.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
EXPLANATION.
I WAS MORE THAN I WAS ACTUALLY
MORE CURIOUS LIKE THERE'S A
CLUBHOUSE SO IF THERE WAS IN A
POOL IF THERE WAS A POWER
OUTAGE, THIS BUILDING THIS NEW
BUILDING IS ALL ELECTRIC.
THERE IS NO BACKUP GENERATION
LIKE ARE THERE PLACES WHERE
PEOPLE COULD GO ON SITE AS LIKE
A WARMINGS CENTER OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT?
SO AS A COMPANY WE HAVE MADE A
COMMITMENT TO INSTALLING GAS
POWERED GENERATORS AT ALL
OF OUR CLUBHOUSES.
IT IS NOT COMPLETE AT THIS
CLUBHOUSE YET BUT THIS
CLUBHOUSE OUR PLAN IS TO
INSTALL A GAS POWERED GENERATOR
AT THIS CLUBHOUSE SO THAT THE
BATHROOMS SHOWERS AT THE
CLUBHOUSE AND THE KITCHEN
OF THE CLUBHOUSE ARE AVAILABLE
FOR RESIDENTS IN THE EVENT THAT
THERE IS A POWER.
OK, AS MUCH AS I LOVE TELLING
YOU GAS STOPS AND YOU ARE
ALREADY DOING THAT, THAT IS
EVEN MORE OF A REASON NOT TO
NOT TO WORRY AS MUCH ABOUT THE
NEW BUILDING THIS PLACE PLACES
FOR THESE RESIDENTS TO GO.
THERE IS AN OUTAGE AND IT IS
ALL ELECTRIC CERTAINLY ARE
COMING IN.
YES.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER NILS.
SO THE THING THAT I'M
STRUGGLING WITH THIS IS OUR
FERDY'S APPROPRIATE AND SO I
WENT BACK TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
THE DEFINITION OF OUR FOUR DAYS
IS AND KIND OF WHERE IT GOES
AND IS INTENDED TO PERMIT
HIGHER DENSITY IN HIGH RISE
BUILDINGS AND SUBSTANTIAL
TRACTS OF LAND IN AREAS OUTSIDE
THE DOWNTOWN AND THEN THERE'S
SOME ADDITIONAL CRITERIA TO
APPLY.
AND I AND THE THE FIRST ONE
TALKS ABOUT I THINK THIS
BUILDING IN PARTICULAR THIS IS
IDEAL FOR OUR FORESEE THIS
BUILDING IS THE PRESENCE
OF NATURAL LAND FEATURES THAT
MAY BE USED TO ADVANTAGE IN
SCALING DOWN THE POTENTIAL
IMPACTS ON SURROUNDING AREAS.
WE TALKED ABOUT ITS HIGHWAY ON
ONE SIDE LIKE A PUBLIC LAND ON
THE OTHER SIDE.
AND SO I THINK THAT THAT PART
IS BUT WHAT I'M STRUGGLING WITH
IS THAT IT'S WE'RE NOT JUST
TALKING ABOUT THIS BUILDING.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT REZONING
THIS ENTIRE PARCEL AND I DON'T
THINK THAT THAT CRITERIA
APPLIES TO THE NEXT TWO TO THE
ENTIRE SITE.
I DON'T THINK THAT THERE ARE
PRESENCE OF NATURAL LAND
FEATURES THAT EFFECTIVELY ALLOW
FOR SCALING DOWN ON SURROUNDING
AREAS AND AGAIN IN THIS PART
OF THE CITY IN PARTICULAR,
THERE'S LOTS OF OUR FOR IT'S
ALL OUR FORTE LIKE BLOCKS.
SO ANYWAY, THAT'S ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I'M STRUGGLING
WITH.
THE NEXT ONE IS THE LOCATION
WOULD ENHANCE THE BY ANOTHER
REASON IT SAYS A CRITERIA
OF WHY YOU WOULD APPLY OUR
FORCE D IF I SAID OUR C THERE I
MET OUR FOUR D I MET OUR FOUR D
THAT'S WHAT I'M SORRY YEAH WHAT
THE BE CORRECT IN THE NEXT ONE
IS THE LOCATION
WOULD ENHANCE
THE BYPASSES AND ENTRANCEWAYS
TO THE CITY AND PROVIDE A
COMMUNITY LOCAL OR IDENTITY
POINT BUT I DON'T KNOW THAT
THAT IS REALLY I MEAN AGAIN IN
THIS PARTICULAR PLACE THAT PART
MEETS THE FIRST CRITERIA THE
REST OF IT WHAT IF WE REZONE IT
I DON'T THINK OF THE PROVIDING
NECESSARILY THAT COMMUNITY
FOCAL POINT OR RIGHT NOW I MEAN
AND I DON'T KNOW THE HOW TO TIE
THAT IN THE FUTURE TO THE WHOLE
SITE AND THEN THE THIRD ONE WAS
PROVIDE HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES
NEAR OUTLYING COMMERCIAL
SERVICE OR EMPLOYMENT CENTERS
AND AGAIN THIS IS THE END
OF IT.
THERE'S NOT MUCH BEYOND IT.
IT'S THE FARTHEST ONE FROM
THOSE EMPLOYMENTS WITH THE
SURE.
OBVIOUSLY LIKE DOWN AND THERE'S
A LOT BUT IT SEEMS ODD THAT
THIS WOULD BE THE PLACE RATHER
THAN TO TO DENSIFIED RATHER
THAN DENSIFY THE ENTIRE
QUARTER.
SO AGAIN, I'M TRYING TO THINK
LIKE WHAT IS THE ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT AGREE THAT THAT THE
BUILDING THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE THE DENSITY IN THE
FORM THERE IS TOTALLY RIGHT.
I'M STRUGGLING WITH THE WHOLE
PROPERTY AND I DON'T KNOW THAT
IT MEETS THAT CRITERIA AND AND
THIS IS ABOUT HALF OF WHAT
COULD BE BUILT ON THIS SITE AND
AGAIN MAYBE IT COULD BE BETTER
MAYBE IT WOULD BE INFILL BUT
ALSO THIS REZONING ONE OF THE
OTHER THINGS THAT'S DIFFERENT
BETWEEN OUR FOUR AND OUR
FORCES.
THE AMOUNT OF OPEN SPACE ARE
FORTY FOUR GUYS THAT WE TALK
ABOUT OUR FORCES SO MUCH NOT
OUR FERDY OK AND OUR FOUR D IS
THE AMOUNT OF OPEN SPACE AND
AGAIN THEY HAVEN'T GONE THEY
HAVEN'T USED UP ALL THAT OPEN
SPACE.
THERE'S STILL MORE OPEN SPACE
THAT THEY WOULD BE ALLOWED TO
BUILD ON IF THEY WERE TO ADD
MORE IN THE FUTURE.
SO AGAIN AND I'M SURE THAT IT
WOULD BE IF IT WOULD BE IF IT
WAS A NATURAL FEATURES WOULD
ALLOW IT WOULD TAKE IT TO
ADVANTAGE AND SCALING DOWN THE
POTENTIAL IMPACT.
SO I I'M INTERESTED IF ANYBODY
ELSE HAS DONE THIS I AM
THINKING MYSELF ABOUT LIKE
AGAIN HOW YEAH.
THAT'S THE THING THAT I'M
STRUGGLING WITH IF IT'S NOT
VERY APPARENT IN RAMBLING.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR COMMENTS.
I THINK IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU ARE
CONFLICTED ABOUT THAT ONE
PARTICULAR QUALITY
OF DESIGNATION OF IT NEEDING TO
BE, YOU KNOW NEXT TO AN
EMPLOYMENT CLUSTER THAT THIS
ISN'T LIKE THE PERFECT CIRCLE,
YOU KNOW, PEG IN A HOLE KIND
OF THING.
BUT ACTUALLY IT OH YEAH.
I'M HAPPY TO LET OTHER
COMMISSIONERS RESPOND.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS YEAH.
I GUESS I DON'T I DON'T KNOW
THAT I READ IT THAT WAY.
I READ THAT THE OPERATIVE
LANGUAGE SORT OF IN THAT FIRST
PARAGRAPH TOP OF THE SENTENCE
THAT INTRODUCES THAT LIST
STATES SOME OF THE CRITERIA
USED IN DETERMINING THE
LOCATION OF THIS ZONING
DISTRICT INCLUDE I READ THAT AS
SORT OF EXAMPLES, RIGHT.
NON PRESCRIPTIVE.
I DON'T HAVE TO CHECK OFF ALL
THREE I DON'T EVEN HAVE TO
CHECK OFF ONE IF IF I THINK IF
THERE'S A SUBSTANTIAL TRACT
OF LAND LOCATED IN AREAS OTHER
DOWNTOWN OF MINIMIZE THE IMPACT
OF PERMITTED INTENSITY OF LAND
USE TO ME THAT'S THE GUTS
OF WHERE THIS IS APPROPRIATE.
I THINK GOING BACK TO THE
CHAIR'S COMMENTS REGARDING WHAT
THE PLAN ACTUALLY SAYS, YOU
KNOW AS I READ IT WHEN I DID
WHEN I WAS READING THE STAFF
REPORT THIS IS THE PERFECT AREA
FOR THIS TYPE OF OF BUILDING
AND IT'S NOT ONLY APPROPRIATE
HERE BUT I THINK IT'S A WELCOME
ADDITION TO THAT AREA OF TOWN.
THANK YOU.
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE AN ATTORNEY
ON THE STAFF.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONER, I WOULD JUST ECHO
BECAUSE I SIMILAR TO
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SORT OF READ
IT DIFFERENTLY.
BUT EVEN IF I GO INTO A, B AND
C, I FEEL LIKE WE MEET THE
CRITERIA HERE JUST HAVING
WALKED THE PROPERTY TODAY THERE
IS A LOT OF NATURAL LAND
FEATURES ACTUALLY GOT
MISDIRECTED BECAUSE I WAS
LOOKING AT ONE LAND AND I WAS
LIKE NO THE PLAN IS HERE AND SO
I HAD TO TAKE A WALK AND THEN I
REALIZED IT WAS NEXT TO THE DOG
PARK NOT AT THE END OF WHERE
THERE IS ANOTHER WETLAND AND
THEN HOW MUCH SPACE IS BETWEEN
THE BUILDINGS FOR THE NEXT
DEVELOPMENT AND THEN I THINK IF
WE THOUGHT ABOUT SORT OF THE
NORTH AREA OF TOWN AS A SORT
OF COMMERCIAL SERVICE EMPLOYEE
MET CENTER ESPECIALLY WITH U
OF M.
S ACQUISITION OF THE FIZER
PROPERTY, A LOT OF THE FOLKS
WHO ARE ON THIS SIDE OF TOWN
ARE SORT OF COMMUTING DOWN INTO
TOWN FROM THIS AREA AND THEN
THE BYPASS YOU KNOW YOU HAVE
FOURTEEN AS YOU COME RIGHT
ACROSS NEXEN OR COME ACROSS
FOURTEEN AS YOU COME INTO THIS
SITE AND THEN WITH TWENTY THREE
THERE IT I'D RATHER SEE THIS
THAN A AN UNDEVELOPED SPACE
ESPECIALLY GIVEN OUR CURRENT
HOUSING CRISIS.
SO I THINK AND I AM IN FAVOR
DENSITY SO I WANT TO SAY I
THINK THIS IS GOOD AND I'D BE
HAPPY TO SEE A HIGHER DENSITY
HERE BUT I KNOW THAT'S NOT ON
THE TABLE.
COUNCIL MEMBER DESH I THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT TO CONSIDER WHAT
YOU'RE BRINGING COMMISSIONER
MILLS BECAUSE WE ARE REZONING
THE ENTIRE SITE.
I WOULD ADD THAT OTHER THINGS
THAT ARE IN THIS AREA RIGHT
NEXEN IS OBVIOUSLY AS WE SEE
FROM THIS AND WHERE THE PLAN IS
IT'S ABOUT TWENTY THREE.
WELL THAT'S IF YOU GO TO PLAN
IN THERE'S A HUGE MEDICAL
CENTER FOR YOU THERE AND SO
THERE'S THERE'S REALLY QUITE A
LOT OF JOBS THAT ARE OUT THIS
WAY AND THERE ISN'T A LOT
OF LAND OPEN TO BE REDEVELOPED
.
AND SO I THINK THAT WHILE WE
MIGHT HAVE PAUSE ABOUT IS THIS
REALLY THE RIGHT ZONING
DESIGNATION FOR THIS WHOLE
PARCEL, I THINK THAT WE ARE
AIMING TO PROVIDE MORE HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES INSIDE THE CITY
TO REDUCE COMMUTING AND WE ARE
AIMING TO LOCATE THOSE
OPPORTUNITIES AS CLOSE TO JOB
OPPORTUNITIES AS WE CAN AND
SERVICES THERE'S A MILLION
GROCERY STORES THERE.
I WISH SOME OF THEM WERE CLOSER
IN BUT THIS IS A VERY WELL
SERVICED AREA AND SO I THINK
AND AGAIN WE KNOW THAT THE
PHASE ONE IS NOT OLD OR
OUTMODED AND SO THE LIKELIHOOD
THAT IT WOULD BE, YOU KNOW,
REDEVELOPED VERY SOON IS SLIM
AND WHO KNOWS HOW MUCH DENSITY
WILL BE WELCOMING?
NO.
FORTY YEARS FROM WHEN I WILL
NOT BE ALIVE SO MORE BUT YOU
KNOW, I DON'T THINK I LIVE TO
103 SO SO I FEEL THAT I THINK
THAT THE STANDARDS ARE BEING
HONORED.
I THINK THE THING ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, DEVELOPMENT IN THE WEST
OTHER THAN WHAT WE'VE ALREADY
DONE IT RIGHT THERE AND I DON'T
THINK ANY OF US WOULD
NECESSARILY WANT RESEARCH
THERE.
SO SO THIS REALLY I THINK THAT
WE ARE BEING RIGOROUS AND
THOUGHTFUL AND GIVE IT CAN
CONSIDERING THE AREA I THINK
THIS IS A TERRIFIC INFILL
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
I WILL JUST ECHO COUNCIL MEMBER
JUST REALLY QUICKLY THAT I DO
ALSO APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
HILL'S COMMENT WITH RESPECT TO
THIS.
THIS DOES IMPACT THE ENTIRE
SITE.
SO I THINK LOOKING AT THAT IS A
VERY APPROPRIATE CONCEPT GIVEN
THE FACT THAT WE ARE KIND
OF HYPER FOCUSED ON THAT ONE
LITTLE PARCEL SO ALMOST MIGHT
BE EASIER IF IT WAS KIND
OF LIKE PLOTTED OR SEPARATED
BUT ALAS IT'S NOT THIS IS WHERE
WE ARE HERE BUT CONTEXTUALLY
SPEAKING I THINK THIS IS A
GREAT INFILL PROJECT.
SO COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
BACK THEN I THOUGHT THIS WAS
TWO PARCELS AND I WAS READY TO
GET RID OF THIS CONDITION.
I THINK WHAT YOU REALLY WANT,
COMMISSIONER, IS ANSWER FOR
THAT HAS LIKE THAT LIKE THAT 75
OR 80 FOOT HEIGHT I THINK LIKE
THE R FOR D D RIGHT WITH THIS
CONDITION TO SEVENTY FIVE FEET
RATHER THAN ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FOUR THE WHOLE SITE
MAKES ME MORE COMFORTABLE LIKE
YOU KNOW IT SEPARATES FROM THE
HIGHWAY AT THE END ESPECIALLY
THIS TALLER BUILDING.
SO I THINK BECAUSE OF THAT I
GUESS NOW I'M TEAM CONDITIONED
NOW BUT I'VE REALIZED WHAT THIS
THING ACTUALLY DID I SAY IT'S
BEEN A LONG WEEK.
YEAH ALL GOOD.
ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I'M GOING
TO LOOK FOR ANY LAST COMMENTS
THOUGHTS.
MISKELLY I THINK WE'RE READY
FOR A ROLL CALL VOTE ON THE
MOTION AS PRESENTED WITH THE
FRIENDLY AMENDMENT THAT A
CONDITION ADDED TO APPROVE THE
SITE PLAN REQUIRING BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION SURELY YES.
ONLY BY EVENTS.
YES, SECRETARY WISCH YES.
SHAMO YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES.
COUNCIL MEMBERS.
YES COMMISSIONER CLERK YES
COMMISSIONER.
WHETHER IT BE YES MR. ADAMS
YES.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU AND GOOD
LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER TEN OTHER
BUSINESS THERE IS NONE SO WE
ARE GOING STRAIGHT TO AGENDA
NUMBER ELEVEN PUBLIC COMMENT
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
WELL, FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS NINE IF LISTENING
BY PHONE OR USE A RAISE AND
FEATURE IF VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK AND FOR PHONE ACCESS
PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING IT NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THE PHONE NUMBER AND OR BY
NAME.
IF AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE
TO A QUIET AREA NEUTRAL
BACKGROUND AREA NOISES SO THAT
WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
HI.
YES THAT IS ADJUSTABLE WITH A
BUTTON ON THE RIGHT IF YOU DO
WANT TO USE THAT POWER HERE ON
THE TOP RIGHT IF YOU'RE FACING
THE TOP RIGHT.
YEAH
I THINK YOU ASK ME OK.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR UP AT HI MY NAME
IS DAN CLARKSON.
I AM VERY GRATEFUL FOR YOUR
THOUGHTFUL COMMENTS ON THE
MOMENT THAT YOU JUST APPROVED.
WE HAD DONE A LOT OF WORK IN
THE PAST TO MAKE SURE
DEVELOPMENT MAINTAINED THE
PRESERVATION OF THOSE WETLANDS
.
IT DOESN'T HAVE ANYTHING TO DO
WITH DENSITY IS THAT THOSE ARE
VERY VALUABLE TO BARRY CLEAN
WATER SUPPLY TO THE RIVER AND
WE ALSO KNOW THAT THAT'S
CRITICAL AT THIS POINT IN TIME
BUT ALSO THAT PROPERTY HAS A
LOT OF VERY HIGHLY VALUABLE
ECOLOGICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
FEATURES INCLUDING A LOT
OF SPECIES THAT SHOULD BE GIVEN
HABITAT SPACE ALL ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT I WOULD LIKE YOU TO
CONSIDER IS TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT DEVELOPMENT AND ANY OTHER
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT DOES MAKE
SURE THOSE HAVE THE MOBILITY
ACCESSIBLE UNITS AND THAT FOR
CEOS THAT THEY ARE ACTUALLY
VERIFYING THAT ALL OF THE UNITS
ARE ACCESSIBLE.
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE FIVE
PERCENT AND THEN TWO PERCENT.
AND THE OTHER THING I WOULD
LIKE TO ASK YOU IS TO CONSIDER
AN INITIATIVE TO INCREASE THAT
AMOUNT.
ROUGHLY 14 PERCENT OF THE U.S.
POPULATION CURRENTLY NEEDS
ASSISTANCE TO AMBULATE.
AND AS WE'RE MOVING INTO
GREATER AGING IN PLACE AND A
LARGER SENIOR POPULATION, WE
NEED MORE OF THE HOUSING TO BE
ACCESSIBLE.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE FAIR HOUSING
HASN'T INCREASED THAT AMOUNT
SINCE NINETEEN NINETY ONE AND I
THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT IF THE
CITY TOOK INITIATIVE TO DO THAT
IF WE HAD 15 PERCENT THAT MEETS
JUST WHAT WE NEED RIGHT NOW.
SO JUST EVEN IF YOU GOT THE 10
PERCENT THAT WOULD MAKE A
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT FOR FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT.
LET'S SEE.
WELL I'M SORRY IF I DON'T KNOW
THAT I APOLOGIZE.
JUST LET ME KNOW WHY I'M SO
DOES THIS UNIT THAT I DON'T
KNOW THAT I WOULD REALLY
APPRECIATE IS THAT WE ARE
CONSCIOUS ABOUT THIS CORRIDOR
AND THAT THAT HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT DOES NOT HAVE GOOD
PUBLIC TRANSIT ACCESS AND SO I
DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU CAN DO AS A
COMMISSION TO CONVINCE THE MTA
TO LOOK AT IT MAYBE EVEN GOING
INTO THE TOWNSHIP AND MAKING AN
AGREEMENT.
SO THERE'S A TURNAROUND PASS
THE WAY THOSE PEOPLE IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT FOR ANYBODY WHO HAS
MOBILITY ISSUES TO GO PAST
GREEN AND ON AND UP NEXT AND IT
WOULD BE GREAT IF WE HAD THE
TRANSIT THE AG WON'T DO THAT
WITHOUT A TURNAROUND AND THEY
WERE THE LAST PLACE THAT WE
COULD HAVE THAT.
SO I ANYWAYS, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE IN THE
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME
?
OK, I'M HAVING TROUBLE.
I GOT YOU TO GET IT PRESSED
DOWN IN THE OTHER DIRECTION
SHOULD MOVE FOR YOU KNOW THIS
ONE RIGHT HERE.
I'M NOW A YOUNG
THANKS SHIRLEY
DUBBERLY.
YEAH, THANK YOU.
COMMISSION FOR MAKING
ELECTRIFICATION A CONDITION ON
THIS SITE PLAN IF I CAN MAKE A
SUGGESTION TO STAFF AS YOU'RE
WORKING THE LANGUAGE THAT YOU
KNOW ELECTRIFICATION IS KIND
OF VAGUE THAT THE CONDITION BE
NO NATURAL GAS HOOKUP IN
PARTICULAR IS ALREADY COMMITTED
TO THAT.
SO BEYOND THAT, YOU KNOW, I
DEFINITELY AGREE WITH WHITNEY'S
COMMENTS CONCERN ABOUT THE
WETLANDS AND ABOUT
ACCESSIBILITY.
I THINK YOU ARE GOING BEYOND
THE LEGAL STANDARD IS REALLY
IMPORTANT AND I HAVEN'T GIVEN
ANY THOUGHT TO THIS OR LOOK AT
STATUTE.
BUT IT'S SOMETHING THAT YOU
KNOW, THE COMMISSION MAY WANT
TO PUT ON ITS AGENDA FOR THE
UDC SO OTHERWISE THANK YOU
AGAIN FOR YOUR YOU KNOW, YOUR
EXCELLENT COLLABORATION INSIGHT
ON THIS AND FOR PAYING
ATTENTION TO PUBLIC AND FOR
YOUR SERVICE AND ON COMMISSION.
TAKE CARE.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE IN THE AUDIENCE?
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK SEEING NO
ONE.
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY REMOTELY
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
THERE ARE NO ATTENDEES.
OH OK.
IT'S LIKE THAT PARKS AND REC
MOMENT.
CAN YOU WAS ABDIRAHIM OK WITH
THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC COMMENTS
.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO AGENDA ITEM
TWELVE.
IS THERE ANY COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS COMMISSIONER
WHICH I WOULD LIKE TO MODIFY
OUR BICYCLE ORDINANCE THAT'S IN
THE UDC?
I SENT SAT PLANNING STAFF A
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT
THE BICYCLE THE ENTIRE BICYCLE
ORDINANCE IS IN OUR UDC OR IF
IT EXIST ANYWHERE ELSE SO THAT
THE RECOMMENDATION THAT I'D
LIKE TO MAKE ARE COVERED AND
THEN I WOULD LIKE TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THE ACCEPTABLE PROFIT
WOULD BE FOR THIS
RECOMMENDATION.
MY THOUGHT WAS TO WRITE A MEMO
TO CHAIR ABRAM'S WHO I THINK
CHAIRS THE OR C AND ASK FOR
CONSIDERATION OF A PROPOSAL TO
AMEND OUR BICYCLE ORDINANCE TO
INCLUDE CARGO BIKES AS A PART
OF OUR SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
THANK YOU BUT CAN I OH CAN I
GET CONFIRMATION THAT THAT IS
WHAT WE SHOULD DO FOR ME AT
START I THOUGHT YEAH I SAW
PLANNER KELLY NOT IN THE
DOCUMENT THAT THAT YOU MAY
RECALL THAT WE HAD A
CONVERSATION AROUND THE STEP
CAPACITY AND WORK PLAN.
THIS IS NOT CURRENTLY ON THE
WORK PLAN.
IT IS HOWEVER IT DOES COME UP
FROM TIME TO TIME AND IT IS
IMPORTANT TO STEP AND IT
ACTUALLY COINCIDES WITH KIND
OF LIKE A BUNDLE OF OTHER
THINGS BUT I HAVE ON MY WISH
LIST SOMEDAY IF WE IF WE ARE
ABLE TO TACKLE STANDARDS FOR
BIKE ROOMS, MAKING SURE THAT WE
ARE THINKING ABOUT MINIMIZING
PATH OF TRAVEL FROM FOR
BICYCLISTS AND PEOPLE WHO ARE
USING SMALLER VEHICLES ELECTRIC
CHARGING FOR MICRO MOBILITY
SOMETIMES IT'S REFERRED TO
SCOOTERS BIKES.
SO THERE IS A LOT THERE TO
TACKLE.
I THINK IT'S MORE THAN JUST
CARGO BIKES.
I WOULD WANT TO GO FURTHER IF
WE ADDRESS THAT SECTION.
I MADE MODIFICATIONS.
I DID POSE IT AS A POTENTIAL
PRIORITY FOR THE ORDINANCE
REVISIONS COMMITTEE AND IT WAS
RANKED I THINK IN THE BOTTOM IT
WAS RANKED VERY LOW BUT FOR A
POTENTIAL THING TO TACKLE I
ACTUALLY I THINK I JUST SLIPPED
IT IN THERE WAS A STAFF IDEA SO
MAYBE THERE COULD BE FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
THE SIX.
SO I JUST I JUST WANTED TO ASK
I THINK THAT'S A REALLY, REALLY
GOOD AND IMPORTANT IDEA BECAUSE
CLEARLY THEY ARE A DIFFERENT
SHAPE AND YOU SEE THEM ALL
OVER.
SO MANY PEOPLE ARE USING CARGO
BIKES NOW AND SO BUT I'M
WONDERING IF KNOWING WHERE WE
ARE WITH STAFF CAPACITY AND
AGAIN THIS ISSUE THAT MR.
GARBER JUST BROUGHT UP ABOUT OH
BY THE WAY, WHAT'S OUR STANDARD
FOR ELECTRIFICATION?
THERE ARE THINGS THAT PEOPLE I
WONDERED IF STAFF CAN HELP
PROMOTE THE CARGO BIKE
ACCOMMODATION IN FORMERLY
WITHOUT AN ORDINANCE NECESSARY.
YOU KNOW THESE ARE THE KINDS
OF SMALLER THINGS THAT I THINK
IN DISCUSSION ABOUT SITE PLANS
AND OTHER THINGS THAT YOU ALL
HAVE THAT COULD COME UP AND BE
ADDRESSED AT LEAST AS A FIX IN
THE MEANTIME AND THEN WE CAN
OBVIOUSLY PUT IT ON OUR LIST
OF THINGS THAT WE REALLY WANT
TO GET TO.
BUT I WOULD LIKE US TO BE DOING
EVEN IF WE CAN'T WRITE IT INTO
LAW YET.
IS THAT POSSIBLE?
WE WE DO THAT
ACTUALLY WE DO
ALREADY ENCOURAGE EVEN AT THE
CONCEPT PHASE ACTUALLY PLANNER
THATCHER WHO IS JUST HERE
TONIGHT AND I HAD A CONCEPT
MEETING WITH, YOU KNOW, A
POTENTIAL PROJECT DEVELOPER AND
THEY WERE ASKING US A BUNCH
OF QUESTIONS.
IT WOULD BE A DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AND WE GOT TO
TALKING ABOUT PARKING AND ALL
OF THE THINGS THAT WOULD BE
AVAILABLE TO THEM IF THEY
WANTED TO LEASE PARKING FROM
THE DAY OR TAKE IT DO A SHARED
PARKING ARRANGEMENT IF THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THEY WANT TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF AND THEN WE
YOU KNOW, PIVOTED TO BIKE
PARKING AND WE SAID HEY,
THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT
TYPES OF BIKES.
PEOPLE HAVE TRAILERS THAT THEY
TOW THEIR KIDS OUT AND
SOMETIMES PEOPLE HAVE CARGO
BIKES.
THERE'S MICRORNA, YOU KNOW,
OTHER TYPES OF VEHICLES THAT
YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE MAKE IT
REALLY CONVENIENT TO LIVE IN A
PLACE LIKE US.
SO PLEASE THINK ABOUT ALL THE
DIFFERENT FORMATS THAT WOULD BE
REQUIRED.
SO WE ENCOURAGE THAT EVEN
BEFORE WE GET A FORMAL
SUBMITTAL WE'RE TALKING TO
PEOPLE.
WE BRING IT UP.
YEAH, SURE.
RIGHT.
YEAH.
SO FOR ME I APPRECIATE THE
DISCUSSION AND I DO RECOGNIZE
THE SAHHAF LIMITATIONS IN TERMS
OF TIME BUT I PERSONALLY FEEL
LIKE THIS IS FOR ME SOMETHING
TO UNDERSTAND HOW THIS WOULD
COME FROM A COMMISSIONER INTO
THE UDC.
I KNOW THERE ARE STAFF WAYS
THAT THESE THINGS COME BUT I'M
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT LIKE WITH
A SMALLER CONTAINED THING HOW
WE WOULD GO ABOUT THIS PROCESS
AND THEN I TRUST LRC TO
PRIORITIZE IT, SCHEDULE A
HEARING HERE.
YOU KNOW, I'M HAPPY TO MAKE A
PRESENTATION.
I HAVE SOME LANGUAGE THAT I'D
LIKE TO PROPOSE SO THAT'S WHAT
I'M JUST TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
THE PROCESS FOR DOING THIS AND
THEN I THINK I TRUST THAT AND
THE REST OF THE COMMISSION TO
SAY OH THIS IS THE PROCESS.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO IT AND
THAT WOULD BE FINE.
BUT I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I
UNDERSTAND AND I DIDN'T HEAR AN
OBJECTION TO ME WRITING A MEMO
TO CHAIR ABRO WITH THIS
PROPOSAL AND THEN I WILL WAIT
TO HEAR BACK SO AND I I CAN
TOTALLY APPRECIATE THE
ATTENTION AND PROCESS THAT
SOMETHING THAT IS VERY
IMPORTANT TO ME AS WELL AS YOU
KNOW, I'M NEWER TO THE
DEPARTMENT AND I COULDN'T
DECIPHER A CLEAR PROCESS FOR
NECESSARILY WHAT BROUGHT
SOMETHING ONTO THE WORK
PROGRAM, WHAT MOVED SOMETHING
OUT OF THE THE WORK PROGRAM IF
IT BECAME A RELEVANT I BY WAY
OF YOU NOTING THIS AT THIS
MEETING DURING COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS PUT THE
COMMISSION PROPOSAL INTO A LIST
AND I WAS THINKING WHEN WE WERE
GOING THROUGH THE LAST WORK
PROGRAM REVIEW THAT IT WOULD BE
NICE TO HAVE MORE DISCUSSION
AROUND IT.
AND I THINK WHAT WE COULD DO IS
MAYBE CIRCULATE A SURVEY IN
ADVANCE OF A WORKING SESSION
AND JUST SAY THESE ARE THINGS
THAT CAME UP OVER THE LAST YEAR
AND COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
ARE THEY STILL IMPORTANT OR
OVER THE LAST SIX MONTHS
WHENEVER WE REVISIT IT NEXT AND
JUST HAVE A MORE OPEN
DISCUSSION ABOUT MAYBE RANKING
OF PRIORITIES THAT REFLECT
EVERYONE ON THE COMMISSION AND
FINDING HOW TO MATCH THOSE WITH
STAFF CAPACITY OVER WHATEVER
THE NEXT HORIZON IS PUTTING
THEM INTO YOUR NEXT WORK
PROGRAM AND THEN BRING IT TO
YOUR VOTE FOR ADOPTION OR THANK
YOU.
I WILL SEND YOU A MEMO.
THANKS.
YEAH MR ABBOTT.
YEAH.
SO MY UNDERSTANDING OF THE
PREVIOUS PROCESS WHICH I THINK
KELLY IS PROPOSING A GOOD
UPDATE TO IS THAT STAFF WOULD
JUST COLLECT A LIST AT THE END
OF EVERY MEETING AND THOSE
THINGS WOULD COME TO US ONCE OR
TWICE A YEAR AND WE DISCUSS THE
WORK PROGRAM AND DECIDE WHAT WE
WANT TO PRIORITIZE IN
CONSULTATION OR CONVERSATION
WITH PLANNING STAFF.
SO I THINK YOU PLEASE WRITE ME
THE MEMO IF YOU FEEL COMPELLED
TO WRITE THE MEMO.
BUT I THINK THAT AS OF THIS
DISCUSSION IT IS NOW ON THIS
LIST AND WILL APPEAR THE NEXT
TIME WE DISCUSS A WORK PROGRAM.
CAN YOU LIST YES.
BASICALLY WHAT YOU JUST SAID MR
I THINK YOU'RE INTRODUCING THE
POSSIBILITY OF A MORE
INTENTIONAL PROCESS ABOUT THE
WORK PROGRAM DISCUSSION WHICH I
THINK SOUNDS GOOD.
A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE IS I THINK THAT MAYBE C AND
AS CHAIR OF THAT COMMITTEE I'LL
TAKE RESPONSIBILITY HAVE NOT
BEEN COMMUNICATIVE ENOUGH WITH
THE FULL COMMISSION ABOUT WHAT
WE ARE UP TO AND SO WE ARE
MEETING ON TUESDAY AND I WILL
REPORT AT OUR NEXT COMMISSION
MEETING WHAT WE ARE WHAT WE
DISCUSSED.
BUT GENERALLY WE ARE WORKING
OUR WAY THROUGH KIND OF COMPLEX
CONVERSATION AROUND ZONING,
MINIMALISM AND UTC
SIMPLIFICATION AND I ALSO WAS
GOING TO SAY RAISE THE GEAR
DOWN A COMMISSIONER WE'RE DOWN
TO A COMMITTEE OF THREE AND
BECAUSE OF STAFF LIMITATIONS WE
HAVE BEEN VOLUNTEERING TO DO
SOME LEGWORK OF OUR OWN
HOMEWORK.
SO WE COULD REALLY USE A FOURTH
PERSON.
I KNOW THAT WE'RE MAYBE AT
CAPACITY BECAUSE OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SUBCOMMITTEE
BUT IF I WAS ANYBODY WHO WAS
NOT ALREADY COMMITTED TO A
COMMITTEE COMMITTED AND WANTED
TO JOIN US ON THE RSA, I THINK
WE WOULD WELCOME MORE MORE
CONTRIBUTION SO THAT I
COMMISSIONER I'M NOT GOING TO
GO AND THEN IF I HAVE ANOTHER
THING I WANTED TO SAY BUT BUT
MAYBE IS I WANT ANYONE WANT TO
SAY ANYTHING MORE ABOUT OAC AND
PROSEK.
I JUST WANTED TO OFFER
COMMISSIONER ADAMS A CHANCE TO
INTRODUCE THEMSELVES TO THE
PUBLIC AND TO ASK WHICH I MEANT
TO ASK REQUEST AT THE BEGINNING
AND THEN EVERYTHING A FARCE AT
THE BEGINNING.
BUT YES, I'M GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
MY NAME IS DAN.
I'M A LIFELONG RESIDENT OF THE
AREA I GREW UP IN DEXTER
ACTUALLY COMMISSIONER CLARK AND
I BOTH ARE PROUD DREADNOUGHTS
SO ATTORNEY BY TRAINING I
PRACTICED LAW FOR SIX YEARS IN
DETROIT FOR HONIGMAN DOING
COMMERCIAL LITIGATION.
I NOW I'M NOW IN-HOUSE AT GM.
I DON'T HAVE ANY PART
BACKGROUND IN PLANNING OR LAND
USE BUT IT WAS SOMETHING THAT
POLITICALLY I GOT INTO IN
CONNECTION WITH THE LIBRARY LOT
PROPOSAL IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN AND
JUST GOT INTO IT AND DEEPER
AND DEEPER AND HERE I AM.
I'M VERY EXCITED TO BE HERE
EXCITED TO HELP OUT AND EXCITED
TO TO WORK ON THESE ISSUES
DIRECTLY.
SO IT'S NICE TO MEET YOU ALL.
WELCOME.
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER COMMISSION
DO YOU LIKE TO REVISE
ORDINANCES.
I DO.
COMMISSIONER MILLS IN TERMS
OF KELLY EARLIER YOU NOTED THE
DEPARTURE OF MR. SMITH AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT I THINK THAT
BRINGS WITH IT IS NOT AS MUCH
SCRUTINY TO WHAT IS ACTUALLY
LIKE WHAT IS ACTUALLY REQUIRED
HEARD RIGHT AND THE DETAILS
AROUND THAT.
AND SO I'M NOT SUGGESTING THAT
THAT FILL THE GAP BUT I'M I
WANT TO NOTE THAT THIS IS NOT
OFTENTIMES THERE'S THINGS THAT
ARE TALKED ABOUT WE HAVE TO ASK
LIKE IS WHAT WE'RE SEEING THE
COLOR OF PAINT OBVIOUSLY IS NOT
THE THING LIKE WE KNOW IT MAY
NOT WELL SOMETIMES NOT BROWN
BUT I THINK THAT THAT'S ONE
OF THE THINGS I FEEL LIKE IS
GOING TO BE A GAP IN US JUST
UNDERSTANDING LIKE YEAH, I
DON'T KNOW AS YOU WERE THINKING
INTERNALLY ABOUT KIND OF HOW
THAT WHOLE MIGHT BE FILLED IN
THEIR ABSENCE.
I WOULD JUST NOTE THAT IN
PARTICULAR LIKE HELPING IF
THERE'S IF THERE IF THERE'S ANY
FUNCTION THAT I THINK WOULD BE
REALLY HELPFUL IS LIKE WHAT IS
THE THING THAT THE SITE LIKE
GUARANTEES IS GOING TO HAPPEN
OR WHAT DOES NOT GUARANTEE IS
GOING TO HAPPEN WOULD BE IN THE
SUSTAINABILITY WORLD.
RIGHT WOULD BE REAL HELPFUL.
MR WAS SMITH'S REVIEWS WERE UM
ALWAYS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE
DEVELOPER AND NOT SPEAKING
DIRECTLY TO REQUIREMENTS SO
THOSE REVIEWS WOULD NOT LACK IN
ADHERENCE TO CITY CODE OR
REQUIREMENTS.
ALL OF THOSE REVIEWS ARE
COVERED .
THERE IS A CLEAR BENEFIT TO TO
HIS REVIEWS THAT WILL BE
MISSED.
YEAH I HAVE SPOKEN WITH TODAY
TO DISCUSS THAT THERE HAVE
POSTED THE POSITION TO FILL HIS
POSITION.
I AM SOMEWHAT AT THE MERCY
OF WHAT WE'RE PROVIDED BY BY
DEVELOPERS THE EXPERTIZE THAT
WHAT WE HAVE AVAILABLE WITHIN
THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT UNTIL A
NEW STAFF MEMBER IS ASSIGNED
FROM SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATIONS.
SO I KNOW THAT THAT POSITION IS
ALREADY POSTED IN CASE ANYONE
IS LISTENING.
THERE'S NOBODY BUT SEATON AND
SO I DO HOPE TO HAVE A NEW
COLLEAGUE TO COLLABORATE WITH
SOON.
I DID WORK VERY CLOSELY WITH MR
ROSMUS SO AND I'M SORRY TO SEE
HIM GO BUT HAPPY YOU KNOW FOR
HIM TO FURTHER HIS CAREER.
THANK YOU WITH THAT ANY OTHER
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
WITH THAT I'M GOING TO GO TO
THE LAST ITEM ADJOURNMENT MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER WHICH SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS ALL IN
FAVOR SAY AY AY